                                                  Culture, Arts & Heritage
                                                              Commission

Special Meeting Minutes                                                                 Members
Tuesday, August 25, 2026
                                                                                              Ruby Lewis
5:30pm                                                                                         President
Microsoft Teams Online
                                                                                              Vacant
                                                                                          Vice President
Commissioners Present:
                                                                                            Michelle Tan
Ford, Bennett, Mendoza, Gaspar, Tan, and Harris                                             Ricky Gaspar
                                                                                        Rosalinda Mendoza
Commissioners Absent:                                                                   Russell Ford, CCAC
Lewis                                                                                   Shon-Lueiss Harris
                                                                                          Jeanne Bennett
Guests:                                                                                        Vacant
David Linehan (Madrona Law Group, PLLC)

Item 1: Call to Order
Commissioner Bennett made a motion to call August 25, 2026, Special
Meeting of the Culture, Arts & Heritage Commission to order at 5:32p.m.
The motion was seconded by Gaspar and unanimously approved in the
absence of President Lewis.

The Commission met via Microsoft Teams.

Item 2: Introduction to Madrona Law & Legal Services Overview
Perlick provided background on the City Attorney’s Office determined
that CAHC operates as a separate legal entity as a Public Development
Authority. We received recommendations about a number of firms who
could provide legal support to CAHC, and staff held an initial interview
after research and contacting multiple firms.                                          Parks, Recreation and
                                                                                         Cultural Services
Perlick introduced David Linehan from Madrona Law Group, PLLC.                             Department
Linehan shared his practice and exclusive background in municipal law
advice, intellectual property, and code enforcement matters. He has
                                                                                           P.O. Box 1995
practiced law for over 25 years, representing public and private clients
                                                                                       Vancouver, WA 98668
across a broad range of legal issues.
                                                                                           360-487-8311
                                                                                              TTY: 711
                                                                                        cityofvancouver.us




                          To request accommodation or other formats, please contact:
                  Alicia Nilo | 360-487-8311 | TTY: 711 | parkrecculture@cityofvancouver.us
                                                                                 Culture, Arts & Heritage Commission
                                                                                                      Meeting Minutes
                                                                                                           Page 2 of 3


Linehan brings experience in matters of culture and arts, culturally relevant projects, art festivals, museum
openings, and artists of all levels in securing copyright and trademark rights.

Rachel Turpin, also from Madrona Law Group, would be serving the CAHC. While Turpin was unable to attend,
she has experience working for parks departments with cultural programs, public arts, and has helped facilitate
negotiations in public-private partnerships. Both would be available for future meetings and would serve as
CAHC’s legal team if selected.

As specialists in general municipal law, Linehan and Turpin have expressed interest in serving the CAHC for its
robust program and high community impact and come highly recommended by PRCS staff.

An open Q&A was held for commissioner questions. Tan asked for clarification regarding whether the Client in
the Madrona contract represents the CAHC as a governing body, or the President. Perlick clarified that the
client is the CAHC collectively, and the contract represents the President’s signature as authorized by the CAHC.
Perlick also shared that the City is responsible for the contract invoices.

Bennett asked for examples of issues coming up to CAHC that would require legal counsel. Perlick noted
navigation of potential conflicts of interest as an example. Other examples include grant approvals and
outlining roles and responsibilities according to what is ordained by City Council. If selected, Madrona’s duties
would serve the Commission as its own entity, operating by consensus to direct work.

Ford and Gaspar asked for clarification around confidentiality. As a governing body working under the OPMA,
Madrona can help determine whether the requested topic is appropriate for discussing in an open meeting, or
in an executive session.

Gaspar asked if the services extend to the Grant Review Committee (GRC). If authorized, Madrona can work
with the GRC. The Madrona team would follow the client’s objectives and goals, and it was recommended going
through legal review for consideration before any commission agreements or RFPs.

Perlick added that staff are committed to City legal counsel and Commission legal counsel working in
collaboration to support our work.

Commissioners thanked city staff for bringing Madrona before the commission for consideration, and thanked
Linehan for his time and expressed enthusiasm for the team’s background.

Upon conclusion of the commission’s questions, Linehan withdrew from the meeting to allow for open
discussion among commissioners. Commissioner Bennett also left the meeting prior to action items due to a
scheduling conflict.

Item 3: Action Items
Gaspar commented that Turpin and Linehan’s backgrounds will serve as an asset. Gaspar asked if there is a
budget limit for communication with Madrona. Perlick acknowledged that billing rates will be investment for
Madrona to complete initial research, review agendas, and attend every meeting. It was agreed that the
commission check in after a quarter to assess if the services are meeting commission needs.

Tan expressed appreciation of the City’s offer of legal support, commenting on the timeliness. She posed that
the team consider support for subcommittees if the need arises. Mendoza and Ford expressed appreciation
and enthusiasm for working with Madrona. Harris added that they would be valuable for onboarding new
commissioners in the future.
                                                                                Culture, Arts & Heritage Commission
                                                                                                     Meeting Minutes
                                                                                                          Page 3 of 3


Action: The commission held a vote to direct the President to sign the engagement letter for contract with
Madrona Law, PLLC for CAHC legal counsel; contingent on consent from commissioner Bennett to ensure
quorum. The pending motion was made by Gaspar, seconded by Tan, and unanimously approved.

The motion was later approved by Bennett and unanimously passed.

Item 4: New Business – Volunteers Needed
Perlick shared that the City of Vancouver will be holding a Boards & Commissions Open House on September
9 at the Cascade Park Community Library to boost board recruitment and engagement. The event will be held
from 2:30pm – 4:30pm. Nilo will email commissioners more details about the event in the request for volunteers
to represent CAHC.

Tan shared that she submitted letter of resignation due to work responsibilities with the City of Beaverton. She
has kindly offered to stay on to ensure that we meet quorum, and support at needed.

Next Regular Meeting: September 10, 2026

This meeting adjourned at 6:28pm.
