                                                 Culture, Arts & Heritage
                                                             Commission

Meeting Minutes                                                                         Members
Thursday, August 13, 2026
                                                                                              Ruby Lewis
4:30pm                                                                                         President
City Hall, Aspen Room
                                                                                              Vacant
415 W. 6th Street                                                                         Vice President
Vancouver, WA 98660
                                                                                            Michelle Tan
                                                                                            Ricky Gaspar
Commissioners Present:                                                                  Rosalinda Mendoza
                                                                                        Russell Ford, CCAC
Lewis, Harris, Ford, Bennett, Gaspar, and Tan
                                                                                        Shon-Lueiss Harris
                                                                                          Jeanne Bennett
Commissioners Percival and Richardson have submitted                 their                     Vacant
resignations from the commission due to other commitments.

Commissioners Absent:
Commissioner Mendoza was absent.

Item 1: Call to Order
President Lewis called the August 13, 2026, meeting of the Culture, Arts &
Heritage Commission to order at 4:32p.m. The Commission met in the
main hall at the City Hall Aspen Room and via Microsoft Teams.

Item 2: Approval of Minutes
Motion by Ford, seconded by Bennett, and approved unanimously to
adopt the CAHC minutes from July 2026.

Item 3: Workshop
a. Inspire Vancouver Foundational Program Overview / Website Review                    Parks, Recreation and
                                                                                         Cultural Services
Hull (Grants Coordinator) and Ketcham (Communications Specialist)
                                                                                           Department
shared in-depth updates for the CAHC regarding the 2026 Application
Workshop. 2026 Inspire Vancouver Grants invest in cultural programming
for our community in several ways:                                                         P.O. Box 1995
                                                                                       Vancouver, WA 98668
   •   Helps local nonprofit arts, culture, heritage, and science groups                   360-487-8311
       bring programs to more neighborhoods and audiences in                                  TTY: 711
       Vancouver                                                                        cityofvancouver.us




                          To request accommodation or other formats, please contact:
                  Alicia Nilo | 360-487-8311 | TTY: 711 | parkrecculture@cityofvancouver.us
                                                                                Culture, Arts & Heritage Commission
                                                                                                     Meeting Minutes
                                                                                                          Page 2 of 5


   •   This year, we are offering grants in three categories, ranging from $5k - $150k
   •   Grants can be used to create and support public programming and/or support operating costs for an
       organization
   •   Grant funds are paid at award
   •   Applications will close September 10, and awards will be announced mid-October
Grant Categories:

Innovation Grants – Supporting bold ideas and creative risk-taking

   •   Award: $25k or less
   •   8-month grant window
   •   Unrestricted funds to try new things
   •   Examples:
          o Pilot a new program
          o Collaborating with a new partner
          o Reach a new audience
          o Explore an untested approach
Impact Grants – Strengthening and scaling what’s already making a difference

   •   Award: $75k or less
   •   8-month grant window
   •   Unrestricted funds to support your work
   •   Examples:
          o Offer more programs
          o Expand your work to a new area
          o Host an event or festival
          o Cover the cost of program materials
Comprehensive Grants – Building stronger organizations and a thriving cultural community

   •   Award: $150k or less
   •   8-month grant window
   •   Unrestricted funds to sustain and build capacity
   •   Examples:
          o Support operating costs
          o Upgrade technology
          o Invest in research
          o Maintain and expand free and low-cost programs
Basic eligibility requirements for Inspire Vancouver Grants include public programs or experiences for
Vancouver residents, primary purpose to advance or preserve arts, culture, heritage, or science, located withing
Vancouver city limits or provide at least 55% of your programs withing City limits, and nonprofit groups, or
group/individuals with a nonprofit fiscal sponsor.

Understanding eligibility exceptions: Eligibility is determined by organization/applicant, not project. Location
exception: at least 55% of programming held within Vancouver city limits. Groups and individuals must
demonstrate that their project has public benefit and is not commercial in nature.
                                                                                 Culture, Arts & Heritage Commission
                                                                                                      Meeting Minutes
                                                                                                           Page 3 of 5


Hull summarized frequently asked questions about grant categories, including how to select the right category
for the project, whether one organization can apply in multiple categories, and whether one can apply in the
same category as a group that is being sponsored.

Ketcham shared a tour of the resources available on the Inspire Vancouver website, including the Cultural
Access Tax information, Meet the Commission, Equity and Access Index, Eligibility Checker, Fiscal Sponsorship,
Definitions, and FAQs. The Events page will display application and grantee events to feature all projects that
are being funded. The website also features a tab with information about all of the grant categories.

An overview on fiscal sponsors was given; the organizations hold primary responsibility for grant
administration, receive grant funds to issue, oversee and manage records, may retain a fee of up to 10%, and
can access their grantee’s application and reports in the grant portal.

Organizations that can be a fiscal sponsor must have a mission aligned with the projects they sponsor, be a
501c (3) incorporated in Washington and recognized by the IRS and must have a primary purpose to advance
or preserve arts, culture, heritage, or science. Eligibility is determined by the organization/applicant, not the
project. The sponsored organization/applicant must meet ALL other eligibility requirements.

Betancourt shared feedback and scenarios from the community received during workshops and grant
meetings. Concerns include inclusivity, accessibility, organization capacity and infrastructure.

Eligibility interpretation (guidance needed) – policy states “Fiscal Sponsor must have a mission aligned with
advancing or preserving arts, culture, heritage, or science”

   •   Should this be interpreted
          o Narrowly – fiscal sponsors must have culture, arts, heritage, or science as their primary purpose,
              OR
          o More broadly - fiscal sponsors must do culture, arts, heritage, or science activities, but they can
              have a different primary purpose
                   Organizations that do NOT do cultural activities remain ineligible
Potential impacts of interpretation – discussion on who would benefit, and who would be left out

   •   Asking groups who already have a mission-aligned fiscal sponsor to find a new sponsor could limit
       program accessibility
   •   New, large sources of funding could expose gaps in administration capacity at eligible fiscal sponsor
       organizations
   •   Orgs that already offer fiscal sponsorship could have an advantage
   •   Orgs that already offer fiscal sponsorship could be stretched too thin
The floor was open for discussion on fiscal sponsorship and feedback from community members asking for
recommendations for fiscal sponsorship to ensure success of the program and capacity building.
Commissioners discussed reconsidering the broader interpretation to minimize restrictions upon tapping into
existing relationships with potential fiscal sponsors. Betancourt highlighted that the tight timeframe is also a
strong factor for this cycle’s development and reiterated that organizations that do NOT do cultural activities
would remain ineligible.

Bennett pondered what we can do to help local organizations become eligible fiscal sponsors with the tools
to succeed. Betancourt shared that we would facilitate workshops to continue to provide support and build
infrastructure for our local organizations.
                                                                                 Culture, Arts & Heritage Commission
                                                                                                      Meeting Minutes
                                                                                                           Page 4 of 5


Gaspar asked if there are limitations that can be placed on fiscal sponsors who would have the advantage of
sponsoring multiple projects. Perlick shared that a 10% fee is a standard practice, and any changes to that
would require adoption of amended policy. Lewis suggested postponing this vote into the next cycle, since the
current cycle is now open for applications; she added that legal representation for CAHC will be available in
October.

Betancourt shared that 32 accounts have been made in the application portal so far.

b. Fund Distribution Overview
Stokke (Senior Management Analyst) shared an overview of Inspire Vancouver Funding.

Cultural Access Tax – Local Sales Tax Fund

   •   Tax adopted by City Council in Dec. 2024
   •   Fund established in Jan. 2025
   •   Tax collection began in April 2025
   •   Two-month delay between tax collection and City receiving revenue
   •   First revenue received in June 2025
   •   This fund can only be used for Inspire Vancouver grants and administration
Current projections: Estimated Revenue Collections (Year One program allocation) are currently allocated at
$7,000,000, with actual/awarded amount currently at $7,221,446.

   •   Impact ($700,000)
   •   Innovation ($350,000)
   •   Comprehensive ($700,000)
   •   School Transportation ($700,000)
   •   Administration ($700,000)
   •   Flexible ($700,000)
Total: $3,850,000

Projected Carryforward to Year Two: $3,150,000

Next Steps – staff will continue tracking actual revenue vs. projections, work through the City’s budget process,
and develop an annual report (July-June) for Commission.

Donovan reiterated that Capital grants and School opportunity grants will be opened in the next grant cycle.
Perlick shared that the while the 7-year grant window covers the collection of the tax, the grant expenditures
are anticipated to spend-down beyond that period (impacts and programs will not have a harsh cut-off date
exactly 7 years from now).

Rollout for the first cycle was discussed. Perlick reiterated that the year one cycle recommendations were
approved by CAHC at the July 9, 2026, meeting, and moved to City Council on July 20. Gaspar inquired about
increasing allocated grant categories, Perlick highlighted that this would require City Council approval of an
amendment before the award period in October. Harris acknowledged that feedback received called for
smaller grant sizes in the pilot cycle of the program.

It was determined that a motion to change fiscal sponsorship to a broader interpretation can be revisited at a
later time, if necessary.
                                                                               Culture, Arts & Heritage Commission
                                                                                                    Meeting Minutes
                                                                                                         Page 5 of 5


c. Review and Approve GRC Recommendations
Commissioner Harris shared that considerations for the top 5 applicants for the GRC included grant writing,
fundraising expertise, and program participation.

Based on the criteria determined by the selection committee, candidates Carol Mabbott and Aliess Kingsley
were highlighted for their backgrounds in fundraising, connection to the arts and culture sector, and knowledge
about the Inspire Vancouver program and policy. In addition, they bring program evaluation, community
connection, and commitment to racial equity and youth mentorship.

Action: Bennett made a motion to approve the recommended candidates for primary and secondary positions
in the GRC. The motion was seconded by Ford and unanimously approved.

Item 4: Community Forum
None presented.

Item 5: Commission and Staff Reports
a. Cultural Services Manager
Donovan had no updates at this time.

b. Commission President
President Lewis had no updates at this time.

c. Clark County Arts Commission
Ford had no updates at this time.

Item 6: Open Discussion and New Business
Update

Item 7: Next Meeting – September 10, 2026
Donovan gave a brief summary of agenda items planned for the September meeting, including a recruitment
update.

This meeting adjourned at 6:31pm.
