                                                                    Culture, Arts and Heritage
                                                                          Commission

                                                                          MEMBERS
                                                                         Ruby Lewis, President
Culture, Arts and Heritage Commission                                    Vacant, Vice President
Meeting Agenda                                                                  Vacant
September 10, 2026                                                          Ricky Gaspar
4:30 PM                                                                   Rosalinda Mendoza
                                                                             Michelle Tan
City Hall                                                                 Shon-Lueiss Harris
                                                                          Russell Ford, CACC
Aspen Room, 1st Floor                                                           Vacant
415 W. 6th St
Vancouver, WA 98660

Virtual Meeting Credentials:


Microsoft Teams Meeting
Join:
https://teams.microsoft.com/meet/2890188431108?p=hdV5S7MQtQ24J20N
ln
Meeting ID:289 018 843 110 8
Passcode:dY2n4nc6




1. Call to Order and Roll Call - 4:30pm                              Parks, Recreation and Cultural
                                                                                Services
2. Approval of Minutes - 4:35pm                                             415 W. 6th Street
                                                                         Vancouver, WA 98660
   a. Approval of the minutes from the August 13 Regular                        TTY: 711
                                                                         www.cityofvancouver.us
      Meeting, and the August 25 Special Meeting

3. Action Items - 4:40pm

   a. Officer Election: Vice Chair

4. Workshop - 4:45pm

   a. Madrona Services: Introduction and Initial Feedback (20
      Minutes)

   b. Updates on Inspire Vancouver Grant Approval Process (20
      minutes)




                                                                                             Page 1 of 16
    c. Inspire Vancouver Grant Review Committee Process (15
       Minutes)

    d. General Update on Grant Numbers (10 Minutes)

    e. Commission Recruitment Update (5 Minutes)

5. Community Forum - 6:00pm
   To provide public testimony, please see instructions below.

6. Commission and Staff Reports - 6:05pm

    a. Cultural Services Manager

    b. Commission President

    c. Clark County Art Commission

7. Open Discussion & New Business - 6:15pm

8. Next Meeting - 6:25pm

9. Between Now & Then - 6:28pm

Adjournment - 6:30pm
Community Forum Instructions
Time is reserved at each Commission meeting for Community Communications. During this time, the public may
speak on any issue. Each speaker will have three minutes to address the Commission. Community members who
wish to submit detailed testimony that may exceed three minutes of speaking time are encouraged to email their
comments so they can be included with the meeting materials.

Community Communications participants are encouraged to pre-register by email
at parksrecculture@cityofvancouver.us or by phone at 360-487-8311, but may comment during this period without
pre-registration; options for Community Communications are:

    1. In Writing: Public comments can be submitted in writing via email to parksrecculture@cityofvancouver.us by
       5:00 pm the day before the meeting.
    2. Remotely: attend the Microsoft Teams meeting online; be prepared to speak online during the Commission
       meeting at the time of Community Communications.
    3. In Person: Fill out a Public Comment form in person prior to the start of the Community Communications
       portion of the meeting.



City Hall is served by C-TRAN. Route information and schedules are available online at www.c-tran.com. You also
may reach C-TRAN at (360) 695-0123 for more information on times, fares, and routes.

Anyone needing language interpretation services or accommodations with a disability at a Vancouver City Council
meeting may contact the City Manager's staff at (360) 487-8600 (RELAY: 711). Assistive listening devices and live
Closed Captioning are available for the deaf, hard of hearing and general public use. Please notify a staff person if
you wish to use one of the devices. Every attempt at reasonable accommodation will be made. To request this
agenda in another format, please also contact the phone numbers listed above.




                                                                                                             Page 2 of 16
Page 3 of 16
                                                 Culture, Arts & Heritage
                                                             Commission

Meeting Minutes                                                                         Members
Thursday, August 13, 2026
                                                                                              Ruby Lewis
4:30pm                                                                                         President
City Hall, Aspen Room
                                                                                              Vacant
415 W. 6th Street                                                                         Vice President
Vancouver, WA 98660
                                                                                            Michelle Tan
                                                                                            Ricky Gaspar
Commissioners Present:                                                                  Rosalinda Mendoza
                                                                                        Russell Ford, CCAC
Lewis, Harris, Ford, Bennett, Gaspar, and Tan
                                                                                        Shon-Lueiss Harris
                                                                                          Jeanne Bennett
Commissioners Percival and Richardson have submitted                 their                     Vacant
resignations from the commission due to other commitments.

Commissioners Absent:
Commissioner Mendoza was absent.

Item 1: Call to Order
President Lewis called the August 13, 2026, meeting of the Culture, Arts &
Heritage Commission to order at 4:32p.m. The Commission met in the
main hall at the City Hall Aspen Room and via Microsoft Teams.

Item 2: Approval of Minutes
Motion by Ford, seconded by Bennett, and approved unanimously to
adopt the CAHC minutes from July 2026.

Item 3: Workshop
a. Inspire Vancouver Foundational Program Overview / Website Review                    Parks, Recreation and
                                                                                         Cultural Services
Hull (Grants Coordinator) and Ketcham (Communications Specialist)
                                                                                           Department
shared in-depth updates for the CAHC regarding the 2026 Application
Workshop. 2026 Inspire Vancouver Grants invest in cultural programming
for our community in several ways:                                                         P.O. Box 1995
                                                                                       Vancouver, WA 98668
   •   Helps local nonprofit arts, culture, heritage, and science groups                   360-487-8311
       bring programs to more neighborhoods and audiences in                                  TTY: 711
       Vancouver                                                                        cityofvancouver.us




                          To request accommodation or other formats, please contact:
                  Alicia Nilo | 360-487-8311 | TTY: 711 | parkrecculture@cityofvancouver.us


                                                                                                       Page 4 of 16
                                                                                Culture, Arts & Heritage Commission
                                                                                                     Meeting Minutes
                                                                                                          Page 2 of 5


   •   This year, we are offering grants in three categories, ranging from $5k - $150k
   •   Grants can be used to create and support public programming and/or support operating costs for an
       organization
   •   Grant funds are paid at award
   •   Applications will close September 10, and awards will be announced mid-October
Grant Categories:

Innovation Grants – Supporting bold ideas and creative risk-taking

   •   Award: $25k or less
   •   8-month grant window
   •   Unrestricted funds to try new things
   •   Examples:
          o Pilot a new program
          o Collaborating with a new partner
          o Reach a new audience
          o Explore an untested approach
Impact Grants – Strengthening and scaling what’s already making a difference

   •   Award: $75k or less
   •   8-month grant window
   •   Unrestricted funds to support your work
   •   Examples:
          o Offer more programs
          o Expand your work to a new area
          o Host an event or festival
          o Cover the cost of program materials
Comprehensive Grants – Building stronger organizations and a thriving cultural community

   •   Award: $150k or less
   •   8-month grant window
   •   Unrestricted funds to sustain and build capacity
   •   Examples:
          o Support operating costs
          o Upgrade technology
          o Invest in research
          o Maintain and expand free and low-cost programs
Basic eligibility requirements for Inspire Vancouver Grants include public programs or experiences for
Vancouver residents, primary purpose to advance or preserve arts, culture, heritage, or science, located withing
Vancouver city limits or provide at least 55% of your programs withing City limits, and nonprofit groups, or
group/individuals with a nonprofit fiscal sponsor.

Understanding eligibility exceptions: Eligibility is determined by organization/applicant, not project. Location
exception: at least 55% of programming held within Vancouver city limits. Groups and individuals must
demonstrate that their project has public benefit and is not commercial in nature.




                                                                                                          Page 5 of 16
                                                                                 Culture, Arts & Heritage Commission
                                                                                                      Meeting Minutes
                                                                                                           Page 3 of 5


Hull summarized frequently asked questions about grant categories, including how to select the right category
for the project, whether one organization can apply in multiple categories, and whether one can apply in the
same category as a group that is being sponsored.

Ketcham shared a tour of the resources available on the Inspire Vancouver website, including the Cultural
Access Tax information, Meet the Commission, Equity and Access Index, Eligibility Checker, Fiscal Sponsorship,
Definitions, and FAQs. The Events page will display application and grantee events to feature all projects that
are being funded. The website also features a tab with information about all of the grant categories.

An overview on fiscal sponsors was given; the organizations hold primary responsibility for grant
administration, receive grant funds to issue, oversee and manage records, may retain a fee of up to 10%, and
can access their grantee’s application and reports in the grant portal.

Organizations that can be a fiscal sponsor must have a mission aligned with the projects they sponsor, be a
501c (3) incorporated in Washington and recognized by the IRS and must have a primary purpose to advance
or preserve arts, culture, heritage, or science. Eligibility is determined by the organization/applicant, not the
project. The sponsored organization/applicant must meet ALL other eligibility requirements.

Betancourt shared feedback and scenarios from the community received during workshops and grant
meetings. Concerns include inclusivity, accessibility, organization capacity and infrastructure.

Eligibility interpretation (guidance needed) – policy states “Fiscal Sponsor must have a mission aligned with
advancing or preserving arts, culture, heritage, or science”

   •   Should this be interpreted
          o Narrowly – fiscal sponsors must have culture, arts, heritage, or science as their primary purpose,
              OR
          o More broadly - fiscal sponsors must do culture, arts, heritage, or science activities, but they can
              have a different primary purpose
                   Organizations that do NOT do cultural activities remain ineligible
Potential impacts of interpretation – discussion on who would benefit, and who would be left out

   •   Asking groups who already have a mission-aligned fiscal sponsor to find a new sponsor could limit
       program accessibility
   •   New, large sources of funding could expose gaps in administration capacity at eligible fiscal sponsor
       organizations
   •   Orgs that already offer fiscal sponsorship could have an advantage
   •   Orgs that already offer fiscal sponsorship could be stretched too thin
The floor was open for discussion on fiscal sponsorship and feedback from community members asking for
recommendations for fiscal sponsorship to ensure success of the program and capacity building.
Commissioners discussed reconsidering the broader interpretation to minimize restrictions upon tapping into
existing relationships with potential fiscal sponsors. Betancourt highlighted that the tight timeframe is also a
strong factor for this cycle’s development and reiterated that organizations that do NOT do cultural activities
would remain ineligible.

Bennett pondered what we can do to help local organizations become eligible fiscal sponsors with the tools
to succeed. Betancourt shared that we would facilitate workshops to continue to provide support and build
infrastructure for our local organizations.



                                                                                                           Page 6 of 16
                                                                                 Culture, Arts & Heritage Commission
                                                                                                      Meeting Minutes
                                                                                                           Page 4 of 5


Gaspar asked if there are limitations that can be placed on fiscal sponsors who would have the advantage of
sponsoring multiple projects. Perlick shared that a 10% fee is a standard practice, and any changes to that
would require adoption of amended policy. Lewis suggested postponing this vote into the next cycle, since the
current cycle is now open for applications; she added that legal representation for CAHC will be available in
October.

Betancourt shared that 32 accounts have been made in the application portal so far.

b. Fund Distribution Overview
Stokke (Senior Management Analyst) shared an overview of Inspire Vancouver Funding.

Cultural Access Tax – Local Sales Tax Fund

   •   Tax adopted by City Council in Dec. 2024
   •   Fund established in Jan. 2025
   •   Tax collection began in April 2025
   •   Two-month delay between tax collection and City receiving revenue
   •   First revenue received in June 2025
   •   This fund can only be used for Inspire Vancouver grants and administration
Current projections: Estimated Revenue Collections (Year One program allocation) are currently allocated at
$7,000,000, with actual/awarded amount currently at $7,221,446.

   •   Impact ($700,000)
   •   Innovation ($350,000)
   •   Comprehensive ($700,000)
   •   School Transportation ($700,000)
   •   Administration ($700,000)
   •   Flexible ($700,000)
Total: $3,850,000

Projected Carryforward to Year Two: $3,150,000

Next Steps – staff will continue tracking actual revenue vs. projections, work through the City’s budget process,
and develop an annual report (July-June) for Commission.

Donovan reiterated that Capital grants and School opportunity grants will be opened in the next grant cycle.
Perlick shared that the while the 7-year grant window covers the collection of the tax, the grant expenditures
are anticipated to spend-down beyond that period (impacts and programs will not have a harsh cut-off date
exactly 7 years from now).

Rollout for the first cycle was discussed. Perlick reiterated that the year one cycle recommendations were
approved by CAHC at the July 9, 2026, meeting, and moved to City Council on July 20. Gaspar inquired about
increasing allocated grant categories, Perlick highlighted that this would require City Council approval of an
amendment before the award period in October. Harris acknowledged that feedback received called for
smaller grant sizes in the pilot cycle of the program.

It was determined that a motion to change fiscal sponsorship to a broader interpretation can be revisited at a
later time, if necessary.


                                                                                                           Page 7 of 16
                                                                               Culture, Arts & Heritage Commission
                                                                                                    Meeting Minutes
                                                                                                         Page 5 of 5


c. Review and Approve GRC Recommendations
Commissioner Harris shared that considerations for the top 5 applicants for the GRC included grant writing,
fundraising expertise, and program participation.

Based on the criteria determined by the selection committee, candidates Carol Mabbott and Aliess Kingsley
were highlighted for their backgrounds in fundraising, connection to the arts and culture sector, and knowledge
about the Inspire Vancouver program and policy. In addition, they bring program evaluation, community
connection, and commitment to racial equity and youth mentorship.

Action: Bennett made a motion to approve the recommended candidates for primary and secondary positions
in the GRC. The motion was seconded by Ford and unanimously approved.

Item 4: Community Forum
None presented.

Item 5: Commission and Staff Reports
a. Cultural Services Manager
Donovan had no updates at this time.

b. Commission President
President Lewis had no updates at this time.

c. Clark County Arts Commission
Ford had no updates at this time.

Item 6: Open Discussion and New Business
Update

Item 7: Next Meeting – September 10, 2026
Donovan gave a brief summary of agenda items planned for the September meeting, including a recruitment
update.

This meeting adjourned at 6:31pm.




                                                                                                         Page 8 of 16
                                                  Culture, Arts & Heritage
                                                              Commission

Special Meeting Minutes                                                                 Members
Tuesday, August 25, 2026
                                                                                              Ruby Lewis
5:30pm                                                                                         President
Microsoft Teams Online
                                                                                              Vacant
                                                                                          Vice President
Commissioners Present:
                                                                                            Michelle Tan
Ford, Bennett, Mendoza, Gaspar, Tan, and Harris                                             Ricky Gaspar
                                                                                        Rosalinda Mendoza
Commissioners Absent:                                                                   Russell Ford, CCAC
Lewis                                                                                   Shon-Lueiss Harris
                                                                                          Jeanne Bennett
Guests:                                                                                        Vacant
David Linehan (Madrona Law Group, PLLC)

Item 1: Call to Order
Commissioner Bennett made a motion to call August 25, 2026, Special
Meeting of the Culture, Arts & Heritage Commission to order at 5:32p.m.
The motion was seconded by Gaspar and unanimously approved in the
absence of President Lewis.

The Commission met via Microsoft Teams.

Item 2: Introduction to Madrona Law & Legal Services Overview
Perlick provided background on the City Attorney’s Office determined
that CAHC operates as a separate legal entity as a Public Development
Authority. We received recommendations about a number of firms who
could provide legal support to CAHC, and staff held an initial interview
after research and contacting multiple firms.                                          Parks, Recreation and
                                                                                         Cultural Services
Perlick introduced David Linehan from Madrona Law Group, PLLC.                             Department
Linehan shared his practice and exclusive background in municipal law
advice, intellectual property, and code enforcement matters. He has
                                                                                           P.O. Box 1995
practiced law for over 25 years, representing public and private clients
                                                                                       Vancouver, WA 98668
across a broad range of legal issues.
                                                                                           360-487-8311
                                                                                              TTY: 711
                                                                                        cityofvancouver.us




                          To request accommodation or other formats, please contact:
                  Alicia Nilo | 360-487-8311 | TTY: 711 | parkrecculture@cityofvancouver.us


                                                                                                       Page 9 of 16
                                                                                 Culture, Arts & Heritage Commission
                                                                                                      Meeting Minutes
                                                                                                           Page 2 of 3


Linehan brings experience in matters of culture and arts, culturally relevant projects, art festivals, museum
openings, and artists of all levels in securing copyright and trademark rights.

Rachel Turpin, also from Madrona Law Group, would be serving the CAHC. While Turpin was unable to attend,
she has experience working for parks departments with cultural programs, public arts, and has helped facilitate
negotiations in public-private partnerships. Both would be available for future meetings and would serve as
CAHC’s legal team if selected.

As specialists in general municipal law, Linehan and Turpin have expressed interest in serving the CAHC for its
robust program and high community impact and come highly recommended by PRCS staff.

An open Q&A was held for commissioner questions. Tan asked for clarification regarding whether the Client in
the Madrona contract represents the CAHC as a governing body, or the President. Perlick clarified that the
client is the CAHC collectively, and the contract represents the President’s signature as authorized by the CAHC.
Perlick also shared that the City is responsible for the contract invoices.

Bennett asked for examples of issues coming up to CAHC that would require legal counsel. Perlick noted
navigation of potential conflicts of interest as an example. Other examples include grant approvals and
outlining roles and responsibilities according to what is ordained by City Council. If selected, Madrona’s duties
would serve the Commission as its own entity, operating by consensus to direct work.

Ford and Gaspar asked for clarification around confidentiality. As a governing body working under the OPMA,
Madrona can help determine whether the requested topic is appropriate for discussing in an open meeting, or
in an executive session.

Gaspar asked if the services extend to the Grant Review Committee (GRC). If authorized, Madrona can work
with the GRC. The Madrona team would follow the client’s objectives and goals, and it was recommended going
through legal review for consideration before any commission agreements or RFPs.

Perlick added that staff are committed to City legal counsel and Commission legal counsel working in
collaboration to support our work.

Commissioners thanked city staff for bringing Madrona before the commission for consideration, and thanked
Linehan for his time and expressed enthusiasm for the team’s background.

Upon conclusion of the commission’s questions, Linehan withdrew from the meeting to allow for open
discussion among commissioners. Commissioner Bennett also left the meeting prior to action items due to a
scheduling conflict.

Item 3: Action Items
Gaspar commented that Turpin and Linehan’s backgrounds will serve as an asset. Gaspar asked if there is a
budget limit for communication with Madrona. Perlick acknowledged that billing rates will be investment for
Madrona to complete initial research, review agendas, and attend every meeting. It was agreed that the
commission check in after a quarter to assess if the services are meeting commission needs.

Tan expressed appreciation of the City’s offer of legal support, commenting on the timeliness. She posed that
the team consider support for subcommittees if the need arises. Mendoza and Ford expressed appreciation
and enthusiasm for working with Madrona. Harris added that they would be valuable for onboarding new
commissioners in the future.



                                                                                                          Page 10 of 16
                                                                                Culture, Arts & Heritage Commission
                                                                                                     Meeting Minutes
                                                                                                          Page 3 of 3


Action: The commission held a vote to direct the President to sign the engagement letter for contract with
Madrona Law, PLLC for CAHC legal counsel; contingent on consent from commissioner Bennett to ensure
quorum. The pending motion was made by Gaspar, seconded by Tan, and unanimously approved.

The motion was later approved by Bennett and unanimously passed.

Item 4: New Business – Volunteers Needed
Perlick shared that the City of Vancouver will be holding a Boards & Commissions Open House on September
9 at the Cascade Park Community Library to boost board recruitment and engagement. The event will be held
from 2:30pm – 4:30pm. Nilo will email commissioners more details about the event in the request for volunteers
to represent CAHC.

Tan shared that she submitted letter of resignation due to work responsibilities with the City of Beaverton. She
has kindly offered to stay on to ensure that we meet quorum, and support at needed.

Next Regular Meeting: September 10, 2026

This meeting adjourned at 6:28pm.




                                                                                                         Page 11 of 16
2026 Application
Numbers

Diana Betancourt
Inspire Vancouver Program Supervisor

                                       Page 12 of 16
Number of applications received
Applications due September 10 at 11:59 pm

     Applications from eligible grantees                                  #
     Innovation applications                                              #
     Impact applications                                                  #
     Comprehensive applications                                           #
     Applications with fiscal sponsors, all categories                    #



                 [#] applications have been submitted as of noon today.


                                                                              Page 13 of 16
Number of eligible grantees
Applications due September 10 at 11:59 pm

     Eligible grantees                                                            #
     Organizations                                                                #
     Groups with a fiscal sponsor                                                 #
     Individuals with a fiscal sponsor                                            #
     Organizations serving as a fiscal sponsor                                    #



            [#] eligible grantees have submitted applications as of noon today.


                                                                                      Page 14 of 16
Total requests for funding
Applications due September 10 at 11:59 pm

     Total all categories                                         $
     Innovation applications                                      $
     Impact applications                                          $
     Comprehensive applications                                   $




                       [$] has been requested as of noon today.


                                                                      Page 15 of 16
                         Thank You




    Diana Betancourt, Inspire Vancouver Program Supervisor
diana.betancourt@cityofvancovuer.us |360-726-0661 | inspirevancouver.org


                                                                           Page 16 of 16
