                                                                                         Urban Forestry
                                                                                          Commission


                                                                                           Members
Urban Forestry Commission Meeting Agenda
                                                                                             Jesse Durfee
September 16, 2026
                                                                                            Lucius Shields
6:00 PM                                                                                      Jamie Beyer
                                                                                           Ammaar Akhtar
Marine Park Engineering                                                                       Clif Barnes
Marine Park Engineering Conference Room                                                     Lauren Danner
4500 Columbia Way                                                                          Bianca Gonzalez
Vancouver, WA 98668-1995

In accordance with the Open Public Meetings Act (OPMA), the Urban Forestry
Commission meeting will be open to in-person attendance. Options for viewing and/or
participating in the meeting remotely will also be accommodated (see details below).

MEETING ACCESS INFORMATION Click here to join the meeting. To access by phone
(audio only), call: 1-347-941-5324
Phone Conference ID: 989 890 263#



1. Call to Order and Roll Call

2. Approval of Minutes

    a. July 15, 2026 Minutes

3. Community Forum
   To provide public testimony, please see instructions below.

4. Special Guest -
   Neighborhood Program Coordinator, Koko Olszewski to
   discuss the Commission’s Neighborhood Liaison Program
   revamp with the Commission.

5. Heritage Tree prep for 2027 –
   overview and plan for 2027 Hearing. Commission to discuss

6. Program Updates -Commission to discuss                                              Public Works Department
                                                                                          4500 Columbia Way
    a. Friends of Trees Update                                                           Vancouver, WA 98660
                                                                                               TTY: 711
    b. 2027-28 Urban Forestry Work Plan                                                 www.cityofvancouver.us

    c. 2027-28 Budget Prep

    d. Old Apple Tree Festival




                                                                                                             Page 1 of 7
    e. Subcommittee Report

7. Urban Forestry Report -
   Commission to discuss

    a. Program and Staff Report Sept

8. Commission Communications -
   Commission to report & discuss 3 minutes each

9. New Business. Agenda topics for future meetings -
   Commission to discuss

Adjournment


Community Forum Instructions

The public is invited to speak regarding any issue. Members of the public testifying are asked to limit testimony to
three minutes. There are three ways to provide comments:

     1. Writing: Public comments can be submitted in writing (name, address, contact information and comments)
        via email to charles.ray@cityofvancouver.us by noon on the day of the meeting.
     2. Remotely: Remotely: Pre-register by phone at 360-487-8328 or email charles.ray@cityofvancouver.us by
        5pm the day before the meeting
     3. In Person: Pre-register by phone at 360-487-8328 or email charles.ray@cityofvancouver.us by 5pm the day
        before the meeting or fill out a Public Comment form in person prior to the start of the Community
        Communications portion of the meeting.



City Hall is served by C-TRAN. Route information and schedules are available online at www.c-tran.com. You also
may reach C-TRAN at (360) 695-0123 for more information on times, fares, and routes.

Anyone needing language interpretation services or accommodations with a disability at a Vancouver City Council
meeting may contact the City Manager's staff at (360) 487-8600 (RELAY: 711). Assistive listening devices and live
Closed Captioning are available for the deaf, hard of hearing and general public use. Please notify a staff person if
you wish to use one of the devices. Every attempt at reasonable accommodation will be made. To request this
agenda in another format, please also contact the phone numbers listed above.




                                                                                                               Page 2 of 7
                                                                         Urban Forestry
                                                                           Commission

Meeting Minutes                                                                       Members
                                                                                         Clif Barnes
Date Wednesday, July 15, 2026                                                               Chair
Time 6 p.m.
                                                                                         Jamie Beyer
Location Marine Park Engineering                                                          Vice Chair
Marine Park Engineering Conference Room
4500 Columbia Way                                                                      Ammaar Akhtar
                                                                                        Lauren Danner
Vancouver, WA 98668-1995                                                                  Jess Durfee
                                                                                        Lucius Shields
Commissioners/Board Members Present:                                                   Bianca Gonzalez
Clif Barnes, Lauren Danner, Jamie Beyer, Jess Durfee, Bianca
Gonzalez

Excused: Ammaar Akhtar, Lucius Shields

Staff Present: Charles Ray, Jessica George

ITEM 1: Call to Order and Roll Call – Chair/Vice Chair
The July 15th, 2026 meeting of the Urban Forestry Commission was called
to order at 6:01pm by Clif Barnes (Chair). This meeting was held both in-
person and online.

ITEM 2: Approval of Minutes – June 17th, 2026
Motion by Lauren Danner, seconded by Jess Durfee, and carried
unanimously to approve the minutes from the June 17th, 2026 Urban
Forestry Commission meeting.

ITEM 3: Community Forum – 3 minutes each
None.
                                                                                 Public Works Department
ITEM 4: Soils Overview                                                                  Charles Ray
UF Staff Andrew Land offered a presentation on soil science, including its
                                                                                           415 W 6th St
history, role within urban forestry, and the specifics related to urban soil,             P.O. Box 1995
along with recommendations for further learning resources.                           Vancouver, WA 98668
                                                                                          360-487-8328
ITEM 5: Review Code Updates as part of Comp Plan                                             TTY: 711
                                                                                charles.ray@cityofvancouver.us
UF Staff Charles gave a presentation on the major tree code updates,
including regarding tree preservation, redesign specifications,


                        To request accommodation or other formats, please contact:
                  Charles Ray | 360-487-8328 | TTY: 711 | charles.ray@cityofvancouver.us

                                                                                                         Page 3 of 7
incorporating street trees, minimum tree canopy coverage, and parking lot landscaping, along with a Q&A
with the Commission.

ITEM 6: Heritage Tree Prep for 2027
The Commission reviewed the language and formatting of current application documents, along with a
discussion on outreach for the program.

ITEM 7: Neighborhood Liaison Program
Commissioners reflected on the Neighborhood Liaison Program to date and brainstormed ways to update
the program, including: aligning neighborhood contact with Commissioner geographic location; utilizing
social media and other digital tools to increase outreach and effectiveness; and collaborating with the
Office of Neighborhoods to more effectively make contact with neighborhood associations.

ITEM 8: Program Updates
Emailed out.

In-meeting updates include:

Pollinator subcommittee reviewed TreePlotter software and specifically pollinator-friendly trees with the
aim of creating a pollinator environment map for the Bee City USA website.

Outreach subcommittee is preparing for the Old Apple Tree Festival as well as the American Planning
Association’s Washington Chapter meeting including an Urban Forestry tree walkabout.

ITEM 9: Urban Forestry Report
Emailed out.

ITEM 10: Commission Communications
Jess shared tree observations from travels to Denver.

Lauren shared of research and rewriting the entry for the Old Apple Tree on Wikipedia and volunteering at
the Pollinator Festival.

Clif shared of summer tree waterings, Outreach subcommittee, and the Pollinator Festival.

Bianca shared of finishing OPMA training and recent tree walks.

ITEM 11: New Business
The Commission will not meet in August, but Outreach subcommittee will still meet.

ADJOURNMENT
8:01pm



                                    ______________________________
                                              Clif Barnes, Chair


Meetings of the Urban Forestry Commission are electronically recorded on audio. The audio tapes are kept
on file in the office of the City Clerk for a period of six years.

                                                                                                    Page 4 of 7
                       Sept UFC Program and Staff Reports


6. Program Updates
Friends of Trees (FOT):
Below is FOT fall/winter schedule.


        ‘26-’27 Vancouver Event Calendar
 Date                        Planting                   Lead
10/17/26 Vancouver Pruning                              LV
11/14/26 Vancouver 1 - Central South - BIKE PLANTING    ACM
12/12/26 Vancouver 2 - Southeast                        JM
12/19/26 Vancouver Pruning                              LV
1/30/27 Vancouver 3 - Northeast                         JM
2/20/27 Vancouver 4 - West Vancouver - BIKE PLANTING ACM
3/13/27 Vancouver 5 - Central North                     ACM

Urban Forestry Work Plan 2027-28:
The Urban Forestry Work Plan is periodically updated to coincide with the biennial
budget. Staff will begin updating the 2025-26 Work Plan for 2027-28 reflecting new
program elements. The Commission is encouraged to review the 25-26 Work Plan and
share any ideas and suggestions with staff. Staff anticipate sharing a draft with the
Commission early fall.
2027-28 Budget Prep
The city is anticipating a budget shortfall in the General, Street and Fire Funds during
the 2027-28 budget cycle. Urban Forestry does not receive any funding from these three
funds as the program is funded by stormwater fees. UF staff does not anticipate
requesting additional funding except to renew a three-year software subscription that
would be paid in 2027. The city is required to have an approved budget by fall of 2026
for the 2027-28 cycle.

Old Apple Tree Festival Prep
Old Apple Tree Festival planning is underway with the Outreach Committee. It will be
held on October 3rd and we will be celebrating 200 years of the Old Apple Tree. We are
working with Special Events on permitting. We would like to add more vendors selling
apple-based products. Please reach out to Jessica if you have ideas or questions.




                                                                                           Page 5 of 7
Subcommittee Reports:
Outreach:
No report

Neighborhood Liaison:
No report

Pollinator:
No report

Corridor:
No report


7. Urban Forestry Staff Report
Since the July Commission meeting, staff have been focused on watering, scaled back
version of our Environmental Youth Corps program, budget prep for 2027-28,
implementing the new code as part of the Comprehensive Plan with went into effect at
the end of July; response to Emerald Ash Borer, next steps with our Urban Forest
Management Plan and our workload to ensure all aspects of our program are moving
forward.

Emerald Ash Borer (EAB) identified in Vancouver area August 2026
Vancouver Urban Forestry developed and began implementing a Emerald Ash Borer
Management Plan in 2022. EAB has proven fatal to ash trees within approximately five
to ten years after detection, creating an unavoidable and significant obligation for
communities and property owners. There has never been a successful effort to eradicate
EAB once it becomes established. There are no reliable methods to stop its spread or
contain an outbreak other than limiting the transportation of firewood, treating high-
quality ash trees that are suitable for preservation, removing affected or unsuitable ash
trees, and replacing them with climate forward (climate adopted trees for our region
that are urban/drought tolerant), insect and disease resistant trees.

Vancouver’s EAB Management Plan has positioned the city to be better prepared for the
arrival of EAB. Now that EAB has been positively identified in the Vancouver area August
2026, the population of Emerald Ash Borer is anticipated to increase significantly over
the next five to ten years. The goal moving forward is to continue implementing the EAB
Management Plan in coordination with partners to minimize the impacts of ash tree loss
on the community. The City’s EAB website has been updated to reflect the pest’s arrival
in Vancouver. Staff are also working on the following outreach efforts:




                                                                                            Page 6 of 7
   •   Postcards to homeowners with ash street trees explaining management and
       treatment options.

   •   Outreach to tree care providers regarding EAB identification and management.

   •   Neighborhood outreach regarding EAB and privately owned ash trees.

   •   Continued communication and coordination with regional and community
       partners.

Community members who suspect they have identified EAB can report sightings to the
Washington Invasive Species Council online at invasivespeciaswa.gov or email
invasivespeciesinfo@rco.wa.gov. Vancouver Urban Forestry staff are a resource to
community members as a first point of contact regarding this pest or the next invasive
pest to impact Vancouver’s growing urban forest.

Washington Department of Natural Resources (DNR) Grant 2026
Vancouver Urban Forestry are working on submitting a grant application to help support
the community’s response to EAB specifically targeting ash trees on school sites.

Proactive Street Tree Program
The proactive street tree program continues to move forward in coordination with
Transportation’s Pavement Management program. UF Staff are working on the
replanting plans for the streets serviced in 2026 which will be implemented as part of
our fall projects and winter 2027 projects. It is anticipated this program will reduce
storm damage in the right of way, address social/environmental justice, and improve
climate resilience.

Tree Canopy Assessment for Stormwater Management
Staff has been working with Surface Water staff to complete a tree canopy assessment
using 2025 summer data. The city selected Plan IT Geo to complete the project. The goal
is to identify how existing or future tree canopy can support stormwater management
and improve water quality to improve watershed health. Conducting a tree canopy
assessment in 2026 is the optimum time to support watershed management and water
quality improvement activities required in Vancouver’s 2024-2029 National Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Stormwater Permit.

Urban Forestry’s site visit tree inspection backlog is approx. 7 days (goal is 10 day
response time) and completed 67 site visit tree inspections during the month of August.
Development and final development inspection requests are steady.




                                                                                          Page 7 of 7
