CHAPTER 3
Rural and Natural Resource Element
Introduction
Clark County’s rural and resource areas are characterized by forests, large and small scale farms,
rivers and streams that provide quality habitat for fish and wildlife and a wide variety of homes
found in Rural Centers and scattered on lots in a broad range of sizes. Many rural residential
communities are focused in areas with historic roots of large-scale commercial forestry, farming
and mining. Also, rural residential communities are focused on scenic resources such as rivers and
views or to lifestyle activities such as the keeping of horses.

The soils and terrain in the rural and resource areas create significant environmentally sensitive
areas, such as steep, erodible slopes, wetlands and ground water recharge areas. Maintenance of
tree cover, natural vegetation and wetlands are critical to prevention of erosion, flooding,
property and habitat damage, the continued functioning of the ecosystem and preservation of
rural character.

Growth Management Act
Statewide planning goals were adopted in 1990 as part of the Growth Management Act (GMA) to
guide development and adoption of comprehensive plans and development regulations. A basic
principle of the GMA is that growth should first be directed to areas already characterized by
growth and where growth can be supported with adequate urban facilities and services. By
directing development to areas where facilities are currently provided or can be efficiently
provided in the future, the county can better utilize limited resources in both rural and urban
areas. Additionally, by generally directing growth to such areas, Clark County can ensure that a
distinct option for rural living will be available for generations to come. This Chapter satisfies the
GMA’s mandatory Rural Element (RCW 36.70A.070 (5)) by:

      designating rural lands “lands that are not designated for urban growth, agriculture, forest
       or mineral resources”;
      providing a projected 20-year population growth;
      identifying rural government services;
      providing a variety of densities for residential, commercial and industrial land uses; and,
      addressing rural character of such lands, which can include critical areas as well as small-
       scale farm and forestry activities.

This Chapter also satisfies the GMA’s Goal 8 to maintain and enhance natural resource-based
industries and designated resource lands (RCW36.70A.020 (8)).

RCW 36.70A.070 outlines GMA climate change and resiliency requirements. Chapter 14 –
Climate Element contains most climate change and resilience policies in the Comprehensive Plan,
but other elements also include climate policies. Climate-related goals and policies within this
element are noted in the goals and policies section of this chapter. See Chapter 14 for a

                                                  1
comprehensive discussion of climate policies, some of which overlap with rural and natural
resource lands.

Clark County’s Rural Communities
Clark County’s rural area contains predominately low-density residential development, farms,
forests, watersheds crucial to fisheries and flood control, mining areas, small rural commercial
centers, historic sites and buildings, archaeological sites and regionally important recreation
areas. Designation and conservation of a rural area maintains rural community character as a
valued part of the county’s diversity. It also provides choices in living environments, maintains a
link to Clark County’s heritage, allows small-scale farming and forestry and helps protect
environmental quality and sensitive resources.

As defined by WAC 365-1956-210(1947), rural lands are those areas which lie outside of urban
growth areas and do not include designated long-term resource lands (agriculture, forest or
mineral resources). In Clark County, the rural area represents a lifestyle based on historical
development patterns and resource-based industries such as commercial forestry, Christmas
trees, dairies, berry farming, orchards and mining. Today much of the county’s rural lands include a
mix of resource, small commercial, recreational and residential uses.

No single attribute describes the rural landscape. Instead combinations of characteristics which
are found in rural settings impart the sense of what we commonly describe as rural. These factors
are cumulative in nature and the more of these factors that are present influence feelings of
whether a particular area is rural. In many cases these characteristics are subjective and
frequently not all of them are found in each area. When describing rural conditions the public will
often describe these areas in terms of a certain lifestyle. The factors listed below are those that
usually describe "rural character."

   •   the presence of large lots;
   •   limited public services present (water, sewer, police, fire, roads, etc.);
   •   different expectations of levels of services provided;
   •   small scale resource activity;
   •   undeveloped nature of the landscape;
   •   wildlife and natural conditions predominate;
   •   closer relationship between nature and residents;
   •   personal open space;
   •   a sense of separation from intense human activity;
   •   a sense of self sufficiency; and
   •   rural commercial supporting rural area population.

Planning for rural lands in Clark County is important for the following reasons:

   •   to maintain a rural character;
   •   to recognize their location at the urban fringe, where they are susceptible to sprawl
       development which can overwhelm the existing character, infrastructure and way of life;
   •   to serve as transition areas between urban and resource uses because urban and resource
       uses are dependent on each other, but are not always compatible;
   •   to provide services and goods that support resource activities;

                                                   2
    •   to supply nearby urban residents with locally harvested resource products which are fresh
        and often less costly;
    •   to allow the efficient provision of public facilities and services by clearly delineating
        between urban and rural uses so that growth is directed to more compact urban centers;
    •   to add an important dimension to the quality of life through the existence of rural lands,
        open space and natural or critical areas;
    •   to provide for the planned future expansion of urban uses, if necessary or needed, in the
        rural lands that border designated urban areas; and,
    •   to protect and enhance streams and riparian habitat necessary for sustaining healthy
        populations of salmonids.

The Rural and Natural Resource Element is an integral part of the county’s 20-Year Plan. This
element concentrates on how future land use needs within rural and resource lands will be met
and the methodology used to designate resource lands. This element emphasizes how rural and
resource lands should be used in the future, supporting the ongoing and future resource activities
(farming, forestry and mineral extraction) and encouraging such activities on a smaller scale in the
rural non-resource lands. Together, this element in concert with the rest of the 20-Year Plan
supports the long-range vision for Clark County.

RURAL POPULATION GROWTH
The Rural Area is not expected to accommodate large amounts of growth, but allows for low-
density residential development and other traditional rural uses. The GMA requires that rural
development be contained and controlled to ensure the protection of rural character, assure the
visual compatibility of rural development with the surrounding rural area, protect
environmentally sensitive areas and habitat and protect against conflicts with natural resource
uses such as farming, forestry and mining. As of January 2015 2023, 62,205 69,284 people resided
within the rural and resource lands, or those areas outside of the urban growth areas.

It is anticipated that 12,859 9,538 people or 10 5 percent of the new growth will be
accommodated in the rural area. The total county population projection (including urban and rural
areas) over the next 20 years is approximately 577,431 718,154 persons.

RURAL LAND DISTRIBUTION
Clark County is approximately 420,000 acres in size, of which approximately 320,000 acres are
outside the Urban Growth Area. The predominate land uses outside the Urban Growth Area
include forest, agriculture and single family residential development. Table 3.1 illustrates the
distribution of land uses based on 1994, 2004, and 2016, and 2025 zoning categories throughout
the rural and resource lands.

Table 3.1 | Acreage Totals Based on 1994, 2007, and 2016 and 2025 Zoning Categories
    Zoning       Acres     Acres     Acres     Acres
                 1994      2007      2016      2025
 R-5, R-10, R-   105,10   100,117   102,213   102,154
 20                   2
 AG-20,          39,802    35,760    37,460    37,904
 AG/WL



                                                    3
    Zoning      Acres     Acres     Acres     Acres
                1994      2007      2016      2025
 FR-40, FR-80   157,51   158,068   158,099   158,094
                     6



RURAL COMMERCIAL / INDUSTRIAL USES
Existing commercial and industrial uses are located within the rural and resource areas of Clark
County. The majority of existing commercial uses can be found within Rural Centers (275 acres),
although there is some commercial use outside these centers (85 359acres). Currently, the
majority of industrial land is found within the cities or the proposed urban growth areas. Industrial
land within the rural area is limited to the Brush Prairie area and Chelatchie Prairie, the site of the
abandoned sawmill.

Commercial and industrial lands, especially regarding the relationship with employment, are
discussed in more detail in Chapter 1, Land Use and Chapter 9, Economic Development. CR-1 and
IH are the zoning designations applied to rural commercial and industrial parcels.

RURAL CENTER
Rural Centers are distinguished by small lot development with a definite edge, surrounded by a
rural landscape of generally open land used for agriculture, forestry, large lot residential
development, recreation and environmental protection purposes. These centers are often at the
crossroads where historical development has allowed for both smaller lots and commercial uses
within these nodes of development. Within these centers rural residential development is based
on historical patterns. Commercial activities located at crossroads provide rural residents with an
opportunity to meet many of their daily needs without going into one of the cities.

Within the Rural Centers, the following land uses have been identified: residential, commercial,
industrial, public facilities, parks and open space. The commercial and industrial designations are
similar to past comprehensive plan maps with some additional commercial areas designated. The
commercial and industrial activities within these centers should support opportunity for job
growth, tax base to support schools, rural and resource needs and not draw people from the urban
area.

Commercial uses to be encouraged in Rural Centers include post offices, veterinary clinics, day
care, schools, small medical practices, shopping services and housing opportunities compatible
with surrounding roads and utilities. These, in turn, reinforce the center’s rural character and
distinct sense of community. The Rural Centers of Clark County are as follows: Brush Prairie,
Meadow Glade, Hockinson, Dollars Corner, Fargher Lake, Amboy and Chelatchie Prairie. Table 3.2
and 3.3 provides acreage information on existing land uses within these Rural Centers.




                                                  4
Table 3.2 | Acreage of Land Uses in Clark County's Rural Centers, 1994
  Rural Centers          Residential      Commercial          Industrial        Public      Total
                          Acreage          Acreage             Acreage         Acreage     Acreage
 Amboy                           364                 23                  NA          13          400
 Brush Prairie                   242                 49                   36                     327
 Chelatchie                      279                 15                  229                     523
 Dollars Corner                  223                106                  NA                      329
 Hockinson                       236                 28                  NA                      264
 Meadow Glade                   1284                 15                    9                   1,308
Source: Assessor’s Data Base




Table 3.3 | Acreage of Land Uses in Clark County's Rural Centers, 2016 2025

    Rural Centers          Residential     Commercial          Industrial       Public      Total
                            Acreage         Acreage             Acreage        Acreage     Acreage
 Amboy                         325167                26                    0        4015     401208
 Brush Prairie                    229                63                   25          10        327
 Chelatchie                       192                11                  234          42        479
 Dollars Corner                 21984             11519                    0           4     338107
 Fargher Lake1                     68                21                    0           4         92
 Hockinson                        237                32                    0          30        299
 Meadow Glade2                 482686                 8                    0           0     490694
Source: Assessor’s Data Base
1
  Fargher Lake was created in 2000.
2
  Meadow Glade is within the proposed Battle Ground UGA expansion.



Designation Criteria
A variety of different attributes were assessed to determine the future land uses within the rural
and resource lands of the county. As required by the Growth Management Act legislation, the
conservation of resource lands (agriculture, forestry and mineral) was analyzed and based on the
criteria provided, resource lands were designated. After identifying resource lands, the rural lands
were analyzed with regard to lot patterns and sizes and current uses, including the commercial
activity within the Rural Centers. Furthermore, rural lot sizes providing for primarily residential
development were considered in light of the county’s ability to properly serve such sites. The GMA
designation criteria for both rural and resource lands were used in the determination of minimum
lot sizes for all land use designations. This determination was also based on the population
allocation to these areas and the ability to provide services. These land use designations
emphasize the pre-dominate types of uses be it resource-based or more residential in nature.

The policies (pages 3-14 through 3-23) for the rural area govern the use of lands, which are not
reserved for agriculture, forest, or mineral resources, nor are they designated for urban
development. Land uses, densities and intensities of rural development are to be compatible with
both adjacent urban areas and designated natural resource lands. A minimum lot size of one
dwelling per five, ten, or twenty acres has been designated throughout the rural area based on
existing lot patterns; buffers to adjacent resource lands; preservation of rural character and
continued small scale farming and forestry.

                                                                     5
The policies for the resource areas govern the use of lands that are reserved for agriculture, forest
and mineral resources. More specific designation criteria for these three resource land categories
are found under the following three headings: Forest lands, Agricultural Lands and Mineral Lands.

RESOURCE LANDS
Clark County is fortunate to have a variety of lands rich in natural resources including forests,
farmland and deposits of gravel, sand and other minerals. These natural resources are a
component of the economy, providing jobs, tax revenue and valuable products and materials for
local use and export. Farmlands and forests also provide aesthetic, recreational and
environmental benefits to the public while contributing to the diverse character of the county. The
resource land designations are tailored to each of the resources and at a minimum address the
guidelines provided by state law.
Below is a brief description of the state minimum guidelines and methodology used in designating
forestry, agriculture and mineral resource lands. The majority of this work was developed with the
assistance of three citizen focus groups, each responsible for a specific resource.

FOREST LANDS
The Washington Department of Commerce (Commerce) provided counties and cities with
guidelines to assist in classifying and designating resource lands. These guidelines include criteria
for identifying forest resource lands. According to Commerce, the private forestland grading
system of the state Department of Revenue should be used in classifying forest resource lands,
which includes the identification of quality soils for forestry. Long-term commercially significant
forestlands generally have a predominance of higher private forestland grades.

Forest land is defined by the Growth Management Act as "land primarily useful for growing trees,
including Christmas trees...for commercial purposes and that has long-term commercial
significance for growing trees commercially" (WAC 365-190-060). Long-term commercial
significance "includes the growing capacity, productivity and soil composition of the land for long-
term commercial production, in consideration with the land's proximity to population areas and
the possibility of more intense uses of the land."

The effects of proximity to population areas and the possibility of more intense uses of the
surrounding lands are also important factors in classifying forestlands. Commerce provides seven
indicators as guidelines for local governments to use in classifying forestlands:

   •   the availability of public services and facilities conducive to the conversion of forest lands;
   •   the proximity of forestland to urban and suburban areas and rural settlements: forestlands
       of long-term commercial significance are located outside the urban and suburban areas
       and rural settlements;
   •   forestlands consist of predominantly large parcels;
   •   the compatibility and intensity of adjacent and nearby land use and settlement patterns
       with forestlands of long-term commercial significance;
   •   property tax classification: property is assessed as open space or forestland pursuant to
       RCW 84.33 or 84.34;
   •   local economic conditions which affect the ability to manage timberlands for long-term
       commercial production and significance; and

                                                  6
   •   history of land development permits issued nearby.

The delineation of forest lands began by quantifying and mapping Commerce’s seven indicators.
With the exception of soil grades (Figure 21), which are uniformly outstanding throughout the
county, maps were created showing parcel size, tree cover, tax status, physical structures, roads,
utilities, zoning, slope and rainfall. Urban areas and areas close to urban and suburban areas where
few stands of timber remain were not mapped.

The maps were used to identify forest resources within the county. The task was made easier by
the Washington Forest Protection Association, which represents many large and small forest
owners and the Washington Department of Natural Resources. These groups’ classified lands
under their ownership for designation as long-term forest resource land. Other lands were
designated based on the criteria outlined above.

AGRICULTURAL LANDS
Agricultural land is defined by the GMA as "land primarily devoted to the commercial production
of horticulture, viticulture, floriculture, dairy, apiary, vegetable, or animal products or of berries,
grain, hay, straw, turf, seed, Christmas trees or livestock and that has long-term commercial
significance for agricultural production" (WAC 365--190-050). Long term commercial significance
"includes the growing capacity, productivity and soil composition of the land for long-term
commercial production, in consideration with the land's proximity to population areas and the
possibility of more intense uses of the land."

Quality soils are a primary factor in classifying and designating agricultural resource lands (Figure
22A and Figure 22B). Commerce requires that the land capability classification system of the
United States Department of Agriculture Soil Conservation Service be used in classifying
agricultural resource land. This system includes eight classes of soils published in soil surveys. As
with forestlands, the effects of proximity to population areas and the possibility of more intense
uses of the land are important factors in classifying agricultural lands. Commerce provides 1011
indicators criteria (WAC 365-090-050(3)(c)) to assess these factors; however, it is left up to the
local jurisdictions to interpret these guidelines in the designation of resource lands:

   •   the classification of prime and unique farmland soils and farmlands of statewide
       importance, as mapped by the NRCS
   •   the availability of public facilities,
   •   tax status,
   •   the availability of public services,
   •   relationship or proximity to urban growth areas,
   •   predominant parcel size,
   •   land use settlement patterns and their compatibility with agricultural practices,
   •   intensity of nearby land uses,
   •   history of land development permits issued nearby,
   •   land values under alternative uses and
   •   proximity to markets.

The classification and designation of agricultural land began by quantifying and mapping
Commerce’s ten indicators. Maps were created showing prime and unique soil, agricultural cover,


                                                  7
forest cover, parcel size, tax status, physical structures, roads, utilities and zoning. Heavily
forested areas and urban areas were not mapped.

The maps were used to identify Clark County's most productive farmland. This process identified
farm areas that included major patterns of high quality soils and agricultural activity in areas with
generally larger parcels. These lands became candidate areas for consideration as agricultural
resource lands of long-term commercial significance. Commerce’s guidelines again were used to
more closely examine candidate areas with serious limiting factors and to determine the relative
value of candidate areas for agricultural use. The Vancouver Lake lowland candidate area, with its
high quality of soils, large parcels and wildlife values, was placed in a special class. The remaining
candidate areas were divided into three tiers.

After completion of this work, looking at forestry and agriculture on an individual basis, it was
found that there were a number of areas where farming activity was occurring adjacent to
forestry and vice versa or where parcels were not identified up because both farming and forestry
activity was occurring on the site, with neither being the predominant use. Therefore, all the
"edges" of the resource areas were re-evaluated. Reconsideration of the land use designations in
these areas was done by a task force in 1998. Through that review, much of the 35,000 acres of
land designated as Agri-Forest under the 1994 Comprehensive Plan was redesignated to Rural 20,
10 or 5, representing 20, 10 or 5-acre minimum lot sizes. Approximately 3,500 acres of the land
was disputed by an alternative task force contingent. Consideration was remanded back to the
county by the courts. The Clark County Board of Commissioners voted to retain the rural
designation rather than a resource designation.

GMA allows the use of innovative zoning techniques in areas designated as agricultural lands of
long-term commercial significance (RCW 36.70A.177). Listed among five examples is the use of
cluster zoning. A clustering provision was included in the 2016 Comprehensive Plan update.

MINERAL LANDS
The Growth Management Act (RCW 36.70A.040 (3) (b)) requires Clark County and each city
within it to designate mineral resource lands and to adopt development regulations conserving
those resource lands from which the extraction of minerals occurs or can be anticipated. The Act
specifically requires the designation of “mineral resource lands that are not already characterized
by urban growth and that have long-term significance for the extraction of minerals."
There are three key issues to the designation and conservation of mineral resource lands. These
issues include:
    • defining what types of mineral resources are potentially significant in the county;
    • defining the extent and long-term significance of aggregate that is needed to meet the
        demand of the county's projected population; and,
    • determining how to balance a variety of land uses within mineral resource areas.

The mineral resources identified and mined in Clark County consist of two aggregate types: sand
and gravel (round rock) and quarry rock.

The primary uses of sand and gravel deposits are aggregate for Portland cement “ready mix”
concrete and asphalt concrete, drain rock, base rock and fill. There are four principle sand and
gravel mining areas in Clark County: the North County-Woodland Area, East Fork of the Lewis
River, Orchards and East Mill Plain. The deposits in the northern half of the county are primarily
                                                   8
recent alluvium and Pleistocene terrace deposits. The thickness of the alluvial deposits ranges
from a few feet to tens of feet, while the terrace deposits are approximately 30-60 feet thick. The
rocks have not been weathered and are fairly hard.

The most abundant gravel deposits lie in the southern portion of the county (Orchards, East Mill
Plain). These are primarily recent alluvium and Pleistocene flood deposits. The gravel here is
uniform in size, un-weathered and contains a high percentage of hard, non-reactive rocks. This
area also has little overburden and a close proximity to markets. Deposits range from 60 to 100
feet thick, with thickness generally decreasing with distance north from the Columbia River. The
expansion of the Vancouver and Camas urban areas has made a major portion of this resource
permanently inaccessible.

The second type of aggregate quarry rock is typically used as base rock for roads, riprap and jetty
rock or as crushed aggregate. In southwest Washington, most quarry rock is of marine volcanic
origin, characterized by poor strength and durability due to contact with sea water during
extrusion of lavas. However, there are several locations in Clark County where high-quality basalt
bedrock is found capable of producing substantial amounts of durable aggregate. Currently seven
rock quarries are in active operation in the county. With the exception of Fisher Quarry, most rock
quarries are located in the north and east portions of the county a considerable distance from the
market.

Mineral resource lands of long-term commercial significance were designated as part of the 1994
Comprehensive Plan as required by WAC 365-190-070. Mineral resource lands consist of areas
that appear to contain the resource, based on the best available geological information; are
primarily not within environmentally sensitive areas (e.g., 100-year floodplain, high quality
wetland areas); and are at least 80 acres in size, or include at least one 40-acre parcel or two 20-
acre parcels which are currently vacant. Parcel size is not a requirement if the land is adjacent to
an existing mining site.

The Department of Natural Resources published an updated map showing known and potential
mineral resources in 2005 (Figure 23). Identified mining areas are designated with the Surface
Mining Overlay (SMO) District, which is an overlay zone that can be combined with any other
zoning district. Areas where the SMO was applied were updated in 2014.

Development standards in Title 40 were revised in 2014 to help maintain a balance between
surface mining and adjacent land uses. In the Surface Mining Overlay District extraction of
mineral deposits, rock crushing, asphalt plants and concrete batch plants require a conditional use
permit. Special standards include maximum permissible noise levels, hours of operation, drainage
provisions and land restoration requirements. The provisions of this district also apply to surface
mining operations that were active prior to the adoption of these standards.

CRITICAL/SENSITIVE LANDS
Identification and protection of critical areas is a key component of the GMA legislation. The
critical areas component, including maps, definitions and policies, can be found in Chapter 4,
Environmental Element. Critical areas can be found within the urban areas and within the rural
and resource areas of the county. These critical areas include flood hazard areas, geological hazard
areas, wetlands, shoreline and surface waters, wildlife conservation areas, aquifer recharge areas
and scenic areas.
                                                 9
PARKS AND OPEN SPACE
Realizing the importance of parks and recreation to the livability of the community, Clark County
adopted its first Parks Comprehensive Plan in 1965. Clark County owns and operates
approximately 4,006 8,000 acres of park and open space lands. These lands are divided into these
categories: neighborhood, community and regional parks and open spaces. This includes 12
regional parks, three special facilities acres and conservation areas and greenway systems. Many
of these parks are in the rural area, including Moulton Falls, Lewisville Park, Lacamas Lake,
Siouxon and Whipple Creek Park. Recreational facilities are discussed in more detail in Chapter 7,
Parks and Open Space two categories: urban and regional facilities. Urban facilities include
neighborhood parks, community parks and urban open space. Regional facilities include regional
parks, conservation and greenway systems, trails and special facilities.

MASTER PLANNED RESORTS
The Growth Management Act allows counties to permit master planned resorts. A master planned
resort means a self-contained and fully integrated planned unit development, in a setting of
significant natural amenities, with primary focus on destination resort facilities consisting of
short-term visitor accommodations associated with a range of developed on-site indoor or
outdoor recreational facilities. A master planned resort may include other residential uses within
its boundaries, but only if the residential uses are integrated into and support the on-site
recreational nature of the resort (RCW.36.70A.360).

CAPITAL FACILITIES AND UTILITIES
Capital facilities are the basic services that the public sector provides to support land
development including roads, public schools, fire and police protection, parks, libraries and
utilities. Within the rural area, water availability is provided either through private wells or by
Clark Public Utilities. Sewage disposal is predominately provided by on-site septic disposal.
However, there are areas, which have sanitary sewer systems due to failures of the septic systems,
such as Meadow Glade and Hockinson. Utilities are discussed in greater detail in Chapter 6,
Capital Facilities and Utilities.

TRANSPORTATION
Land use and transportation are closely linked, even within the rural and resource areas. Within
the rural area, the functional classification for roads includes Rural Principal Arterials, Rural Minor
Arterials and other rural roads such as Major and Minor Collectors and local roads. Analysis of
rural road definitions and deficiencies is discussed in the Transportation Element Chapter 5.

EQUESTRIAN ELEMENT
Clark County recognizes the contributions of equestrian livestock husbandry, training,
competition and recreation activities to the overall rural quality of life in Clark County. These
activities provide a lifestyle value to numerous county residents and visitors and economic
revenue for rural residents and business owners. There are numerous organizations that support
the equestrian industry by providing education and promoting equine husbandry, including the
Clark County Extension Service, Future Farmers of America, 4H, the Clark County Executive


                                                  10
Horse Council, the Mt. St. Helens Chapter of the Backcountry Horsemen and numerous other
special interest equestrian-related groups.

As growth continues to occur throughout the county, open land to sustain livestock and existing or
potential trail segments may be lost to uncoordinated land development and road improvements.
Also, requirements of the Endangered Species Act may limit livestock management choices and
the location of new equestrian facilities on land constrained by large riparian corridors.
Additionally, with the county’s emphasis on preserving agricultural and forestry lands within the
Resource and Rural Districts, the development of large equestrian facilities of a size and scale that
would be incompatible with agricultural and forestry practices within these districts should be
discouraged.

The Equestrian Community plays a vital role in Clark County’s economy and rural character. Clark
County is unique in the Portland metropolitan area for having many one- to ten-acre exurban
parcels. These properties, many of which host equine uses, are a premium attraction for some.
According to the Clark County Equine Impact report (Clark County Executive Horse Council,
2009), 4.8% of Clark County households own equines. The estimated number of equines in Clark
County is approximately 28,902.

COMMUNITY FRAMEWORK PLAN
Clark County adopted the Community Framework Plan in April 1993. The Framework Plan
established a consensus among the citizens of the county about the lands, which would eventually
be committed to urban uses and those which should remain rural. The Framework Plan is not a
detailed plan, but a plan that provides a framework through policies that guide the development of
the 20-Year Plan. The Framework Plan policies are discussed in Chapter 1 Land Use Element.
Policies that relate to rural lands can be found in most elements of the plan including Land Use,
Rural and Resource Lands, Transportation, Public Facilities, Utilities, Parks and Open Space,
Economic Development and Community Design.

Goals and Policies
Climate-related goals and policies within this element are noted as helping achieve greenhouse
gas reduction [GHG], resilience [RES], or both [GHG, RES].

3.0 COUNTYWIDE PLANNING POLICIES
       3.0.1   The county shall recognize existing development and provide lands, which allow
               rural development in areas, which are developed or committed to development of a
               rural character.

       3.0.2   The county and each municipality shall cooperate to ensure the preservation and
               protection of natural resources, critical areas, open space and recreational lands
               within and near the urban area through adequate and compatible policies and
               regulations.

COUNTY 20-YEAR PLAN POLICIES
Rural Areas – General
                                                 11
Goal: Compatible with maintaining rural character and rural (levels of service) (services),
      ensure that lands outside of urban growth areas are viable places to live and work.
3.1   Policies

       3.1.1   Clark County shall maintain and protect the character of rural lands defined as
               those lands outside of urban growth areas by promoting:
               • Large lot residential development compatible with adjacent farming, forestry
                   and mining and not needing urban facilities and services;
               • Non-residential development in Rural Centers;
               • Economic development activities consistent with the preservation of rural
                   character;
               • Agriculture, forestry and mining activities;
               • Regional parks, trails and open space;
               • Environmental quality, particularly as evidenced by the health of wildlife and
                   fisheries (especially salmon and trout), aquifers used for potable water, surface
                   water bodies and natural drainage systems; and
               • Historic character and resources including archaeological and cultural sites
                   important to the local community. [RES]
       3.1.2   Land use designations shown on the Clark County Comprehensive Plan Land Use
               Map include areas that are rural in character and meet one or more of the following
               criteria:
               • Generally characterized by a larger lot size;
               • Do not require urban levels of public services;
               • Opportunities exist for farming and mineral activities;
               • The area is contiguous with other rural lands or can serve as a buffer between
                   large-lot residential development and resource activities or urban areas;
               • The area is not needed to provide capacity for population or employment
                   growth in the 20-year forecast; and,
               • The area has outstanding scenic, historic, environmental, resource or aesthetic
                   values.

       3.1.3   Clark County’s Rural Area is considered to be permanent and shall not be
               redesignated to an Urban Growth Area until reviewed pursuant to the Growth
               Management Act (RCW 36.70A.130(3) and Countywide Planning Policy 3.0. [RES]

       3.1.4   Master Planned Resorts may be approved in an area outside of established Urban
               Growth Boundaries consistent with the requirements for plan amendments in the
               Clark County Code.

       3.1.5   Encourage cooperative resource management among farmland and timberland
               owners, farm foresters, rural residents, environmental groups and local, state and
               federal resource agencies for managing private and public farm and forestlands
               and public resources. [RES]

       3.1.6   Rural development shall not be allowed unless appropriate facilities and services
               (water, storm drainage, roads and approved sanitary treatment) are in place or
               planned.



                                                12
       3.17    Rural lands generally shall be served by septic tanks and individual wells (when
               public water is not available). Wastewater treatment shall be provided by
               individual on-site treatment systems or approved alternative sewage treatment
               technologies.

       3.1.8   Sewer lines shall not be extended into rural areas except to correct existing health
               hazards, provide public sewer to regional parks, or to serve a school pursuant to
               RCW 36.70A.213. Sewer lines shall not be extended until other means for
               treatment, such as state approved alternative technologies, have been assessed
               and determined not to be feasible due to environmental constraints.

       3.1.9   Rural and Resource land designations within the Columbia River Gorge National
               Scenic Area are consistent with the requirements of the National Scenic Area
               legislation. The minimum lot size requirements and uses shall only be authorized to
               the extent that they are consistent with the National Scenic Area legislation
               established to implement the requirement of the scenic area.

       3.1.10 Activities in rural areas shall be conducted in a manner consistent with the Clark
              County Shoreline Master Program, if in shoreline jurisdiction.

RURAL LANDS

Goal: Compatible with maintaining rural character and rural (levels of service) (services),
      provide for lands outside of urban growth areas that are predominately for residential
      uses.
3.2   Policies

       3.2.1   Rural lands as designated on the Comprehensive Plan Land Use Map are generally
               for rural residential development, for accessory uses such as home businesses and
               for small-scale resource uses.

       3.2.2   Land designated as Rural are characterized by a range of lot sizes and generally are
               not characterized by high-quality soils.

       3.2.3   Those areas with a Rural Comprehensive Plan designation of Rural 5, Rural 10, and
               Rural 20 shall have residential densities of one dwelling unit per 5, 10 and 20 acres
               (R-5, R-10 and R-20), respectively.

       3.3.4   Clustering of parcels is allowed consistent with platting and zoning requirements
               and the Clark County Code.

       3.2.5   If schools and related facilities need to be sited in rural areas, preference shall be to
               locate first in Rural Centers and then, as a last resort, in areas designated as Rural.

RURAL CENTERS
Goal: Maintain the character of the designated Rural Centers within the surrounding rural
      area.

3.3    Policies

                                                  13
3.3.1   Rural Centers as designated on the Comprehensive Plan Land Use Map are distinct
        areas that:

        •  provide a focus for the surrounding rural area that is appropriate in character
           and scale in the rural environment;
        • provide appropriate commercial developments to serve adjoining rural areas;
        • provide services to tourists and other visitors recreating in the area; and,
        • provide an opportunity to develop facilities that can function as a community
           center in those areas where an incorporated town no longer serves that role
           for the surrounding area.
3.3.2   Rural Centers:

        •   are generally characterized by smaller lot patterns;
        •   have residential development and small-scale business that provides
            convenience shopping and services to nearby residents;
        •   have access to arterial roadways; and,
        •   are surrounded by rural landscapes of generally open land used for agriculture,
            forestry, large lot residential, recreational and environmental protection
            purposes.

        Rural Centers identified on the Comprehensive Plan Land Use Map are: Amboy,
        Brush Prairie, Chelatchie Prairie, Dollars Corner, Fargher Lake, Hockinson and
        Meadow Glade.

3.3.3   Rural Centers shall have a residential density of between one unit per acre and one
        unit per five acres (RC-1, RC-2.5 and R-5) based on the historical pattern in the
        area. In no case shall density exceed one unit per acre.
3.3.4   Rural commercial development should support the needs of rural residents and
        natural resources activities rather than urban area uses. Appropriate uses for Rural
        Centers include:
        • resource-based industrial development consistent with rural character and
             levels of service;
        • commercial uses supporting resource uses, such as packing, first state
             processing and processing which provides value added to the resource
             products may occur in resource areas; and,
        • post offices, veterinary clinics, day care, small medical practices and schools
             that provide employment, shopping services and housing opportunities within
             Rural Centers. The scale should be compatible with surrounding roads and
             utilities, which reinforce the rural character and distinct sense of community.
             [RES]
3.3.5   If schools and related facilities need to be sited in rural areas, preference shall be to
        locate first in Rural Centers and then, as a last resort, in areas designated as Rural.

3.3.6   Rural Center designation criteria are as follows:
        • an area proposed as a Rural Center had to have existed as of July 1, 1990,
           identifiable by pre-existing small lot development patterns, natural features as
           boundaries and access to arterials;



                                           14
               •   proponents of a new Rural Center shall submit to the county a petition signed
                   by at least 60 percent of the property owners of the land within the boundaries
                   of the proposed new Rural Center;
               •   an expansion of an existing Rural Center shall be considered and evaluated by
                   the county through the annual review process under CCC40.560 and pursuant
                   to RCW36.70A.070(5)(d).
               •   a new Rural Center shall be considered and evaluated by the county through
                   the docket process under CCC40.560 and pursuant to RCW 36.70A.070(5)(d).

FOREST LANDS
Goal: To maintain and enhance the conservation of productive forestlands and discourage
      incompatible uses associated with forestry activities.

3.4    Policies

       3.4.1   Forest lands as designated in the Comprehensive Plan Land Use Map shall be
               managed primarily for the conservation of long-term commercial significant forest
               lands for productive economic use.

       3.4.2   Primary land use activities on forest lands are commercial forest management,
               agriculture, mineral extraction, public recreation uses and other non-forest related
               economic activities relying on forest lands.

       3.4.3   Those areas with Forest Tier I and Forest Tier II Comprehensive Plan designations
               shall have a residential density of one dwelling unit per 80 and 40 acres (FR-80 and
               FR-40 respectively).

       3.4.4   Clustering of parcels is allowed consistent with platting and zoning requirements
               and the Clark County Code.

       3.4.5   Forest activities shall be encouraged by:
               • supporting land trades that result in consolidated forest ownership;
               • working with forest landowners and managers to identify and develop other
                   incentives for continued forestry; and,
               • taking into consideration in capital improvements plans maintaining public
                   roads adequate to accommodate the transport of forest commodities.
       3.4.6   Land use activities within or adjacent to forestland shall be located and designed to
               minimize conflicts with forest management and other activities on forestland to
               include the following:
               • residential development on lands adjacent to designated forestland shall be
                   located away from the forestland and should provide for a buffer between
                   residential and forest activity;
               • special development standards for access, lot size and configuration, fire
                   protection, water supply and dwelling unit location shall be adopted for
                   dwellings within or adjacent to designated forest lands; and
               • notification shall be placed on all plats and binding site plans that the adjacent
                   land is in resource use and subject to a variety of activities that may not be
                   compatible with residential development.


                                                15
       3.4.7   Special purpose districts and local improvement districts in lands designated in the
               20-Year Plan for forest use will only be used when the services or facilities
               provided by the special purpose district or local improvement district through
               taxes, assessments, rates or charges directly benefit those forest lands.

       3.4.8   Resource activities on forest lands performed in accordance with county, state and
               federal laws should not be considered public nuisances nor be subject to legal
               action as public nuisances.

       3.4.9   In identifying and designating commercial forest land, the following factors shall be
               taken into consideration: operational factors, growing capacity, site productivity
               and soil composition, surrounding land use, parcel size, economic viability, tax
               status and public service levels that are conductive to long-term continuance in
               forest management.


AGRICULTURAL LANDS

Goal: To maintain and enhance productive agriculture lands and minimize incompatibilities
      with adjacent uses.

3.5    Policies

       3.5.1   Agriculture lands as designated in the Comprehensive Plan Land Use Map shall be
               managed primarily for the conservation of long-term commercial significant
               agriculture lands for productive economic use. [RES]
       3.5.2   Primary land use activities on agriculture lands are commercial agriculture
               management, agriculture-related uses, temporary worker facilities, forest
               activities and other non-agriculture related economic activities relying on
               agriculture lands. [RES]

       3.5.3   Those areas with Agriculture Comprehensive Plan designations shall have a
               residential density of one dwelling unit per 20 acres (AG-20).

       3.5.4   Clustering of parcels is allowed consistent with platting and zoning requirements
               and the Clark County Code.

       3.5.5   Those areas with Agriculture/Wildlife Comprehensive Plan designations shall have
               a residential density of one dwelling unit per 160 acres (AG/WL)c.

       3.5.6   Agriculture activities shall be encouraged by:
               • limiting residential development in or near agricultural areas;
               • limiting public services and facilities which lead to the conversion of
                  agricultural lands to non-resource uses;
               • maintaining public roads in capital improvement plans to accommodate the
                  transport of agricultural commodities;
               • cooperative resource management among agricultural land owners,
                  environmental groups, state and federal resource agencies and federally

                                                16
                   recognized Native American tribes for managing the county’s public and
                   private agricultural lands;
               • supporting land trades that result in consolidated agricultural ownership;
               • encouraging the maintenance of agricultural lands in current use property tax
                   classifications, including those classifications as provided for in RCW 84.34 and
                   CCC Chapter 3.08;
               • working with agricultural landowners and managers to identify and develop
                   other incentives for continued farming; and,
               • encouraging agricultural land use as a clean industry incorporating tax breaks,
                   right to farm, purchase of development rights, transfer of development rights
                   and other economic means and develop strategies to support farming
                   practices. [RES]
       3.5.7   Minimum parcel size should be adequate to allow reasonable and economic
               agricultural use.

       3.5.8   Special purpose taxing districts and local improvement districts in lands designated
               in the 20-Year Plan for agricultural use will only be used when the services or
               facilities provided by the special purpose district or local improvement district
               through taxes, assessments, rates or charges, directly benefit those agricultural
               lands.

       3.5.9   Land use activities within or adjacent to agricultural land shall be located and
               designed to minimize conflicts with agricultural management and other activities
               on agricultural land, to include the following:
               • residential development adjacent to agricultural land shall be approximately
                   appropriately buffered from agricultural activities;
               • public services and utilities within and adjacent to designated agricultural areas
                   should be designed to prevent negative impacts on agriculture and allow for
                   continued resource activity;
               • notification shall be placed on all plats and binding site plans that the adjacent
                   land is in resource use and subject to a variety of activities that may not be
                   compatible with residential development. [RES]

       3.5.10 Agricultural activities performed in accordance with county, state and federal laws
              should not be considered public nuisances nor be subject to legal action as public
              nuisances.


MINERAL LANDS

Goal: To protect and ensure appropriate use of gravel and mineral resources of the county and
      minimize conflict between surface mining and surrounding land uses.

3.6    Policies

       3.6.1   Support the conservation of mineral lands for productive economic use by
               identifying and designating lands that have long-term commercial significance for
               mineral extraction and that are not already characterized by urban growth.
                                                17
3.6.2    Designate mineral resource lands based on the following:
         • geological, environmental and economic factors;
         • surrounding land uses, zoning and parcel size; and,
         • the suitability of public access roads to be used as haul roads.
        a.    Geological, environmental, and economic factors, including, without
              limitation, consideration of the evidence of the quality, quantity and
              characteristics of the resource deposits in the area of interest; proximity to
              unstable slopes, riparian and wetland areas, habitat for endangered or
              threatened species, flood hazard areas, parks, public preserves, or other
              sensitive lands; and economic impacts of mining and other uses of the area;

        b.    Surrounding land uses, zoning, and parcel size, including, without limitation,
              consideration of proximity to and impacts on residentially zoned areas with
              existing densities of predominantly one dwelling unit per five acres or higher,
              and proximity to and impacts on agricultural and forest lands; and

        c.    Suitability and safety of the existing transportation system to bear the traffic
              associated with mining, including, without limitation, the suitability of public
              access roads to be used as haul roads, the distance to market, the need to
              route truck traffic through residential areas, and adequacy of intersections to
              handle mining traffic plus other traffic. Consideration of future improvements
              to the transportation system may be considered only of the specific
              improvements are identified and funded as part of the county’s
              transportation plan.

        d.    The surface mining overlay shall not be designated on parcels zoned Rural (R).

        e.    Consideration that reclamation of mineral resource lands occurs after mining
              and that such lands and that such lands may be re-purposed consistent with
              the comprehensive plan.

3.6.3    Ensure that mineral extraction and processing operations minimize and mitigate
         any significant adverse impacts on water, fish, wildlife and nearby land uses mining-
         related activities on mineral resource lands follow best management practices.

3.6.4    Ensure that the use of adjacent lands will not interfere with the continued use of
         designated Mineral Resources lands for the extraction of minerals in the
         accustomed manner and in accordance with best management practices mineral
         extraction and processing operations minimize and mitigate any significant
         adverse impacts on water, fish, wildlife, and nearby land uses.

3.6.5    Establish notification standards whereby developments on lands in the vicinity of
         designated mineral resource lands are given notice that they are locating in or
         adjacent to a potential mining area Ensure that the use of adjacent lands will not
         interfere with the continued use of designated mineral resource lands for the
         extraction of minerals.

                                          18
       3.6.6   The Surface Mining Overlay shall not be designated within Rural (R) zones except
               to allow the expansion of an existing mining site Establish notification standards
               whereby developments on lands in the vicinity of designated mineral resource
               lands are given notice that they are locating in or adjacent to a potential mining
               area.

       3.6.7   Surface mining other than Columbia River dredging shall not occur within any 100-
               year floodplains except for projects with an approved Habitat Conservation Plan.

URBAN RESERVE LANDS
Goal: To identify a limited set of lands outside of but adjacent to urban growth areas that will
      be first priority lands for inclusion as needed urbanizable lands in subsequent UGA
      expansions.

3.7    Policies

       3.7.1   If designated, Urban Reserve areas shall abut established urban growth areas in all
               cases.

       3.7.2   Those areas with an Urban Reserve Comprehensive Plan overlay designation shall
               have a residential density of one dwelling unit per 10 and 20 acres. The Urban
               Reserve Overlay is implemented by Urban Reserve-10 (UR-10) for future urban
               residential development and Urban Reserve-20 (UR-20) for all other types of
               future urban development. When applied, the underlying zoning will remain.

       3.7.3   Urban reserve areas shall be based on the following:
               • the efficiency with which the proposed reserve can be provided with urban
                   services in the future;
               • the unique land needs of specific urban activities assess from a regional
                   perspective;
               • the provision of green spaces between communities;
               • the efficiencies with which the proposed reserve can be urbanized;
               • the proximity of jobs and housing to each other;
               • the balance of growth opportunities throughout the region so that costs and
                   benefits can be shared;
               • the impact on the regional transportation system; and,
               • the protection of designated agricultural and forest resource lands from nearby
                   urbanization.
       3.7.4   All divisions of land in the urban reserve area shall be subject to the land division
               review process and result in parcels of 10 acres or more in size.

       3.7.5   Urban reserve lands shall be the first priority lands for inclusion in urban growth
               boundaries.

       3.7.6   Prior to the inclusion of the urban reserve area in urban growth areas, the county
               will:
               • work with cities to prepare and adopt general transportation, sewer and
                   drainage system plans for the urban reserve area which identify areas with the
                   urban reserve area appropriate for siting of public facilities; and,
                                                19
               •  work with cities, special districts and school districts to prepare and adopt
                  plans for siting of public facilities and schools.
Freight Rail Dependent Uses

Goal: Support freight rail dependent uses where the use is dependent on and makes use of the
short line railroad, as defined by the Surface Transportation Board.

3.8 Policies

3.8.1: Support freight rail dependent uses in rural lands, as well as agriculture, forest and mineral
resource lands, where the use is dependent on and makes use of the short line railroad within the
county.

3.8.2: Freight rail dependent uses will be allowed on parcels with a freight rail dependent use
overlay, where such uses minimize impacts on adjacent rural and resource uses.

3.8.3: Freight rail dependent uses means buildings and other infrastructure that are used in the
fabrication, processing, storage, and transport of goods where the use is dependent on and makes
use of an adjacent short line railroad. Such facilities are both urban and rural development. Clark
County may include development of freight rail dependent uses on land adjacent to a short line
railroad in the transportation element of this plan. The County may also modify development
regulations to include development of freight rail dependent uses that do not require urban
governmental services in rural lands.




                                                 20
