MEMORANDUM
TO:            County Council
FROM:          Karl Johnson, Planning Commission Chair
DATE:          October 1, 2026
SUBJECT:       PC Recommendation: Comprehensive Plan Amendments and updates

PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION

The Planning Commission held a duly advertised public hearing on August 20, 2026 and continued the
hearing to September 3, 2026 to deliberate on the 2025 Periodic Comprehensive Plan Update. The
recommendations from the Planning Commission are included in the Decision Table, attached as Exhibit
1.

INTRODUCTION

Clark County kicked off the 2025 comprehensive plan update consistent with RCW 36. 70A.130 (5)(b) on
January 19, 2023, with a deadline for completion of June 30, 2025 1. The 20-year update covers the 2025–
2045-time horizon.

The purpose of this hearing is to review updates to the comprehensive plan and zoning maps, updated
comprehensive plan text, applicable Title 40 updates, capital facilities plan, and the associated impact
fees.

BACKGROUND

As part of the update process, the county adopted population and job targets and analyzed potential
growth alternatives through the SEPA process. The County Council selected a ‘preferred alternative’ on
April 28, 2026, that was the subject of a final EIS (FEIS). A capital facilities plan and capital facilities
financial plan have been prepared to show the potential costs of growth over the time horizon.

DOCUMENTS
Exhibit A:     Issue Paper #8, provides a summary of all the proposed amendments.
Exhibit 1:     Planning Commission/Council Decision Table
Exhibit 2:     Policy Change Table
Exhibit 3:     Compiled Code Changes
Exhibit 4:     Memo on Allocation and Capacity
Exhibit 5:     Climate Element Documentation


1 In 2024 the WA State legislature, per SB5457, extended the deadline for completion to December 31, 2025   .

                                                                                                 Page 1 of 17
RECOMMENDATIONS

As the Council considers the updated Comprehensive Plan amendments, the Council needs to recognize
(1) the requirements of the Growth Management Act, specifically new legislation related to climate
change, housing, transportation, and capital facilities planning; (2) the analysis as provided in the final
environmental impact statement; and (3) other policy choices that the Planning Commission wish to
make, consistent with the law.
There are a number of factors that need to be considered when amending and updating a Comprehensive
Plan. These are outlined below.

GMA Goals
First and foremost, the preferred alternative has to be consistent with the Growth Management Act, both
its specific provisions, and the more general goals (RCW 36.70A.020). The goals are listed below:
       (1) Urban growth. Encourage development in urban areas where adequate public facilities and
services exist or can be provided in an efficient manner.
       (2) Reduce sprawl. Reduce the inappropriate conversion of undeveloped land into sprawling, low-
density development.
       (3) Transportation. Encourage efficient multimodal transportation systems that will reduce
greenhouse gas emissions and per capita vehicle miles traveled, and are based on regional priorities and
coordinated with county and city comprehensive plans.
       (4) Housing. Plan for and accommodate housing affordable to all economic segments of the
population of this state, promote a variety of residential densities and housing types, and encourage
preservation of existing housing stock.
        (5) Economic development. Encourage economic development throughout the state that is
consistent with adopted comprehensive plans, promote economic opportunity for all citizens of this state,
especially for unemployed and for disadvantaged persons, promote the retention and expansion of
existing businesses and recruitment of new businesses, recognize regional differences impacting
economic development opportunities, and encourage growth in areas experiencing insufficient economic
growth, all within the capacities of the state's natural resources, public services, and public facilities.
       (6) Property rights. Private property shall not be taken for public use without just compensation
having been made. The property rights of landowners shall be protected from arbitrary and
discriminatory actions.
        (7) Permits. Applications for both state and local government permits should be processed in a
timely and fair manner to ensure predictability.
        (8) Natural resource industries. Maintain and enhance natural resource-based industries,
including productive timber, agricultural, and fisheries industries. Encourage the conservation of
productive forestlands and productive agricultural lands, and discourage incompatible uses.
       (9) Open space and recreation. Retain open space and green space, enhance recreational
opportunities, enhance fish and wildlife habitat, increase access to natural resource lands and water, and
develop parks and recreation facilities.
          (10) Environment. Protect and enhance the environment and enhance the state's high quality of
life, including air and water quality, and the availability of water.




                                                                                                Page 2 of 17
For other formats, contact the Clark County ADA Office: 564.397.2322 / 711 or 800.833.6388 / ADA@clark.wa.gov
       (11) Citizen participation and coordination. Encourage the involvement of citizens in the planning
process, including the participation of vulnerable populations and overburdened communities, and ensure
coordination between communities and jurisdictions to reconcile conflicts.
        (12) Public facilities and services. Ensure that those public facilities and services necessary to
support development shall be adequate to serve the development at the time the development is
available for occupancy and use without decreasing current service levels below locally established
minimum standards.
       (13) Historic preservation. Identify and encourage the preservation of lands, sites, and structures,
that have historical or archaeological significance.
        (14) Climate change and resiliency. Ensure that comprehensive plans, development regulations,
and regional policies, plans, and strategies under RCW 36.70A.210 and chapter 47.80 RCW adapt to and
mitigate the effects of a changing climate; support reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and per capita
vehicle miles traveled; prepare for climate impact scenarios; foster resiliency to climate impacts and
natural hazards; protect and enhance environmental, economic, and human health and safety; and
advance environmental justice.
      (15) Shorelines of the state. For shorelines of the state, the goals and policies of the shoreline
management act as set forth in RCW 90.58.020 shall be considered an element of the county's or city's
comprehensive plan.

Other GMA Requirements
RCW 36.70A.060 Natural resource lands and critical areas — Development regulations.
       (1)(a) Each county that is required or chooses to plan under RCW 36.70A.040, and each city within
such county, shall adopt development regulations on or before September 1, 1991, to assure the
conservation of agricultural, forest, and mineral resource lands designated under RCW 36.70A.170.
(Due to length, this provision abbreviated here)

RCW 36.70A.110 Comprehensive plans — Urban growth areas.
        (1) Each county that is required or chooses to plan under RCW 36.70A.040 shall designate an
urban growth area or areas within which urban growth shall be encouraged and outside of which growth
can occur only if it is not urban in nature. Each city that is located in such a county shall be included within
an urban growth area. An urban growth area may include more than a single city. An urban growth area
may include territory that is located outside of a city only if such territory already is characterized by
urban growth whether or not the urban growth area includes a city, or is adjacent to territory already
characterized by urban growth, or is a designated new fully contained community as defined by
RCW 36.70A.350. When a federally recognized Indian tribe whose reservation or ceded lands lie within
the county or city has voluntarily chosen to participate in the planning process pursuant to
RCW 36.70A.040, the county or city and the tribe shall coordinate their planning efforts for any areas
planned for urban growth consistent with the terms outlined in the memorandum of agreement provided
for in RCW 36.70A.040(8).
        (2) Based upon the growth management population projection made for the county by the office
of financial management, the county and each city within the county shall include areas and densities
sufficient to permit the urban growth that is projected to occur in the county or city for the succeeding
twenty-year period, except for those urban growth areas contained totally within a national historical
reserve. As part of this planning process, each city within the county must include areas sufficient to
accommodate the broad range of needs and uses that will accompany the projected urban growth
including, as appropriate, medical, governmental, institutional, commercial, service, retail, and other
nonresidential uses.


                                                                                                   Page 3 of 17
        Each urban growth area shall permit urban densities and shall include greenbelt and open space
areas. In the case of urban growth areas contained totally within a national historical reserve, the city may
restrict densities, intensities, and forms of urban growth as determined to be necessary and appropriate
to protect the physical, cultural, or historic integrity of the reserve. An urban growth area determination
may include a reasonable land market supply factor and shall permit a range of urban densities and uses.
In determining this market factor, cities and counties may consider local circumstances. Cities and
counties have discretion in their comprehensive plans to make many choices about accommodating
growth.
(Due to length, this provision abbreviated here)
         (3) Urban growth should be located first in areas already characterized by urban growth that have
adequate existing public facility and service capacities to serve such development, second in areas already
characterized by urban growth that will be served adequately by a combination of both existing public
facilities and services and any additional needed public facilities and services that are provided by either
public or private sources, and third in the remaining portions of the urban growth areas. Urban growth
may also be located in designated new fully contained communities as defined by RCW 36.70A.350.
        (4) In general, cities are the units of local government most appropriate to provide urban
governmental services. In general, it is not appropriate that urban governmental services be extended to
or expanded in rural areas except in those limited circumstances shown to be necessary to protect basic
public health and safety and the environment and when such services are financially supportable at rural
densities and do not permit urban development.

WAC 365-190-040
Process.
        (1) The classification and designation of natural resource lands and critical areas is an important
step among several in the overall growth management process. These steps, outlined in subsections (4)
and (5) of this section comprise a vision of the future, and that vision gives direction to the steps in the
form of specific goals and objectives. Under the act, the timing of the first steps coincided with
development of the larger vision through the comprehensive planning process.
(Due to length, this provision abbreviated here)
        (6) Classifying, inventorying, and designating lands or areas does not imply a change in a
landowner's right to use his or her land under current law. The law requires that natural resource land
uses be protected from land uses on adjacent lands that would restrict resource production. Development
regulations adopted to protect critical areas may limit some land development options. Land uses are
regulated on a parcel basis and innovative land use management techniques should be applied when
counties and cities adopt development regulations to conserve and protect designated natural resource
lands and critical areas. The purpose of designating natural resource lands is to enable industries to
maintain access to lands with long-term commercial significance for agricultural, forest, and mineral
resource production. The purpose is not to confine all natural resource production activity only to
designated lands nor to require designation as the basis for a permit to engage in natural resource
production. The department provides technical assistance to counties and cities on a wide array of
regulatory options and alternative land use management techniques.
(Due to length, this provision abbreviated here)
        (10) Designation amendment process.
       (a) Land use planning is a dynamic process. Natural resource lands review procedures should
provide a rational and predictable basis for accommodating change.
      (b)(i) De-designations of natural resource lands can undermine the original designation process.
De-designations threaten the viability of natural resource lands and associated industries through


                                                                                                  Page 4 of 17
conversion to incompatible land uses, and through operational interference on adjacent lands.
Cumulative impacts from de-designations can adversely affect the ability of natural resource-based
industries to operate.
       (ii) Counties and cities should maintain and enhance natural resource-based industries and
discourage incompatible uses. Because of the significant amount of time needed to review natural
resource lands and potential impacts from incompatible uses, frequent, piecemeal de-designations of
resource lands should not be allowed. Site-specific proposals to de-designate natural resource lands must
be deferred until a comprehensive countywide analysis is conducted.
        (c) Reviewing natural resource lands designation. In classifying, designating and de-designating
natural resource lands, counties must conduct a comprehensive countywide analysis. Counties and cities
should not review natural resource lands designations solely on a parcel-by-parcel basis. Designation
amendments should be based on consistency with one or more of the following criteria:
       (i) A change in circumstances pertaining to the comprehensive plan or public policy related to
designation criteria in WAC 365-190-050(3), 365-190-060(2), and 365-190-070(3);
        (ii) A change in circumstances to the subject property, which is beyond the control of the
landowner and is related to designation criteria in WAC 365-190-050(3), 365-190-060(2), and 365-190-
070(3);
       (iii) An error in designation or failure to designate;
        (iv) New information on natural resource land or critical area status related to the designation
criteria in WAC 365-190-050(3), 365-190-060(2), and 365-190-070(3); or
       (v) A change in population growth rates, or consumption rates, especially of mineral resources.
       (11) Use of innovative land use management techniques.
       (a) Natural resource uses have preferred and primary status in designated natural resource lands.
Counties and cities must determine if and to what extent other uses will be allowed. If other uses are
allowed, counties and cities should consider using innovative land management techniques that minimize
land use incompatibilities and most effectively maintain current and future natural resource lands.
       (b) Techniques to conserve and protect agricultural, forest lands, and mineral resource lands
include the purchase or transfer of development rights, fee simple purchase of the land, less than fee
simple purchase, purchase with leaseback, buffering, land trades, conservation easements, current use
assessments, innovative zoning, or other innovations which maintain current uses and assure the
conservation of these natural resource lands.
        (12) Development in and adjacent to agricultural, forest, and mineral resource lands shall assure
the continued management of these lands for natural resource production. Uses that would convert
natural resource lands to other uses or would interfere with the allowed natural resource uses must be
prohibited except as authorized in accessory uses under RCW 36.70A.177 or other applicable statutes.
Any uses adjacent to agricultural, forest, and mineral resource lands of long-term commercial significance
must not interfere with their continued use for the production of agricultural, forest, or mineral products
respectively. Counties and cities should consider the adoption of right-to-farm provisions, and may also
adopt measures to conserve and enhance marine aquaculture. Covenants or easements recognizing that
farming, forestry, and mining activities will occur should be imposed on new development in or adjacent
to agricultural, forest, or mineral resource lands. Where buffering is used it should be on land within the
adjacent development unless an alternative is mutually agreed on by adjacent landowners.




                                                                                                Page 5 of 17
WAC 365-190-050
Agricultural resource lands.
         (1) In classifying, designating and de-designating agricultural resource lands, counties must
conduct a comprehensive countywide analysis consistent with WAC 365-190-040(10). Counties and
cities should not review resource lands designations solely on a parcel-by-parcel basis. Counties and cities
must have a program for the transfer or purchase of development rights prior to designating agricultural
resource lands in urban growth areas. Cities are encouraged to coordinate their agricultural resource
lands designations with their county and any adjacent jurisdictions.
        (2) Once lands are designated, counties and cities planning under the act must adopt development
regulations that assure the conservation of agricultural resource lands. Recommendations for those
regulations are found in WAC 365-196-815.
        (3) Lands should be considered for designation as agricultural resource lands based on three
factors:
         (a) The land is not already characterized by urban growth. To evaluate this factor, counties and
cities should use the criteria contained in WAC 365-196-310.
       (b) The land is used or capable of being used for agricultural production. This factor evaluates
whether lands are well suited to agricultural use based primarily on their physical and geographic
characteristics. Some agricultural operations are less dependent on soil quality than others, including
some livestock production operations.
        (i) Lands that are currently used for agricultural production and lands that are capable of such use
must be evaluated for designation. The intent of a landowner to use land for agriculture or to cease such
use is not the controlling factor in determining if land is used or capable of being used for agricultural
production. Land enrolled in federal conservation reserve programs is recommended for designation
based on previous agricultural use, management requirements, and potential for reuse as agricultural
land.
       (ii) In determining whether lands are used or capable of being used for agricultural production,
counties and cities shall use the land-capability classification system of the United States Department of
Agriculture Natural Resources Conservation Service as defined in relevant Field Office Technical Guides.
These eight classes are incorporated by the United States Department of Agriculture into map units
described in published soil surveys, and are based on the growing capacity, productivity and soil
composition of the land.
       (c) The land has long-term commercial significance for agriculture. In determining this factor,
counties and cities should consider the following nonexclusive criteria, as applicable:
      (i) The classification of prime and unique farmland soils, and farmlands of statewide importance, as
mapped by the Natural Resources Conservation Service;
       (ii) The availability of public facilities, including roads used in transporting agricultural products;
        (iii) Tax status, including whether lands are enrolled under the current use tax assessment under
chapter 84.34 RCW and whether the optional public benefit rating system is used locally, and whether
there is the ability to purchase or transfer land development rights;
       (iv) The availability of public services;
       (v) Relationship or proximity to urban growth areas;
        (vi) Predominant parcel size, which may include smaller parcels if contiguous with other
agricultural resource lands;
       (vii) Land use settlement patterns and their compatibility with agricultural practices;


                                                                                                   Page 6 of 17
       (viii) Intensity of nearby land uses;
       (ix) History of land development permits issued nearby;
       (x) Land values under alternative uses; and
       (xi) Proximity to markets.
        (4) When designating agricultural resource lands, counties and cities may consider food security
issues, which may include providing local food supplies for food banks, schools and institutions, vocational
training opportunities in agricultural operations, and preserving heritage or artisanal foods.
         (5) When applying the criteria in subsection (3)(c) of this section, the process should result in
designating an amount of agricultural resource lands sufficient to maintain and enhance the economic
viability of the agricultural industry in the county over the long term; and to retain supporting agricultural
businesses, such as processors, farm suppliers, and equipment maintenance and repair facilities.
        (6) Counties and cities may further classify additional agricultural lands of local importance.
Classifying additional agricultural lands of local importance should include, in addition to general public
involvement, consultation with the board of the local conservation district and the local committee of the
farm service agency. It may also be useful to consult with any existing local organizations marketing or
using local produce, including the boards of local farmers markets, school districts, other large
institutions, such as hospitals, correctional facilities, or existing food cooperatives.
       These additional lands may include designated critical areas, such as bogs used to grow
cranberries or farmed wetlands. Where these lands are also designated critical areas, counties and cities
planning under the act must weigh the compatibility of adjacent land uses and development with the
continuing need to protect the functions and values of critical areas and ecosystems.

WAC 365-196-310
Urban growth areas.
       (1) Requirements.
       (a) Each county planning under the act must designate an urban growth area or areas within which
urban growth must be encouraged and outside of which growth can occur only if it is not urban in nature.
Each county must designate an urban growth area in its comprehensive plan.
       (b) Each city that is located in such a county shall be included within an urban growth area. An
urban growth area may include more than a single city.
       (c) An urban growth area may include territory that is located outside a city if such territory
already is characterized by urban growth or is adjacent to territory already characterized by urban
growth.
        (d) Based upon the growth management planning population projection selected by the county
from within the range provided by the office of financial management, and the resulting allocations of
housing need, and based on a countywide employment forecast developed by the county at its discretion,
the urban growth areas shall include areas and densities sufficient to permit the urban growth that is
projected to occur in the county for the succeeding 20-year period. Counties and cities may provide the
office of financial management with information they deem relevant to prepare the population
projections, and the office shall consider and comment on such information and review projections with
counties and cities before they are adopted. Counties and cities may petition the office to revise
projections they believe will not reflect actual population growth.
        (e) The combined urban growth area may not exceed the areas necessary to accommodate the
growth management planning projections, plus a reasonable land market supply factor, or market factor.
In determining this market factor, counties and cities may consider local circumstances. Counties and


                                                                                                 Page 7 of 17
cities have discretion in their comprehensive plans to make many choices about accommodating growth.
Each urban growth area shall permit urban densities and shall include greenbelt and open space areas.
       (f) Counties and cities should facilitate urban growth within urban growth areas as follows:
        (i) Urban growth should be located first in areas already characterized by urban growth that have
existing public facilities and service capacities adequate to serve urban development.
         (ii) Second, urban growth should be located in areas already characterized by urban growth that
will be served by a combination of both existing public facilities and services and any additional needed
public facilities and services that are provided by either public or private sources.
       (iii) Third, urban growth should be located in the remaining portions of the urban growth area.
        (g) In general, cities are the units of local government most appropriate to provide urban
governmental services. In general, it is not appropriate that urban governmental services be extended to
or expanded in rural areas except in those limited circumstances shown to be necessary to protect basic
public health and safety and the environment and when such services are financially supportable at rural
densities and do not permit urban development. Recommendations governing the extension of urban
services into rural areas are found in WAC 365-196-425.
        (h) Each county that designates urban growth areas must review, according to the time schedule
specified in RCW 36.70A.130(5), periodically its designated urban growth areas, the patterns of
development, and the densities permitted within both the incorporated and unincorporated portions of
each urban growth area (see WAC 365-196-610).
       (2) General procedure for initial designation of new urban growth areas.
        (a) The designation process shall include consultation by the county with each city located within
its boundaries. The adoption, review and amendment of the urban growth area should reflect a
cooperative effort among jurisdictions to accomplish the requirements of the act on a regional basis,
consistent with the countywide planning policies and, where applicable, multicounty planning policies.
       (b) Each city shall propose the location of an urban growth area.
       (c) The county shall attempt to reach agreement with each city on the location of an urban growth
area within which the city is located.
         (d) If an agreement is not reached with each city located within the urban growth area, the county
shall justify in writing why it so designated an urban growth area.
       (e) As growth occurs, most lands within the urban growth area should ultimately be provided with
urban governmental services by cities, either directly or by contract. Other service providers are
appropriate within urban growth areas for regional or countywide services, or for isolated
unincorporated pockets characterized by urban growth. Counties and cities should provide for
development phasing within each urban growth area to ensure the orderly sequencing of development
and that services are provided as growth occurs.
       (f) Counties and cities should develop and evaluate urban growth area proposals with the purpose
of accommodating projected urban growth through infill and redevelopment within existing municipal
boundaries or urban areas. In some cases, expansion will be the logical response to projected urban
growth.
         (g) Counties, cities, and other municipalities, where appropriate, should negotiate interlocal
agreements to coordinate land use management with the provision of adequate public facilities to the
urban growth area. Such agreements should facilitate urban growth in a manner consistent with the cities'
comprehensive plans and development regulations, and should facilitate a general transformation of
governance over time, through annexation or incorporation, and transfer of nonregional public services to
cities as the urban area develops.


                                                                                               Page 8 of 17
        (h) The initial effective date of an action that expands an urban growth area is the latest of the
following dates per RCW 36.70A.067:
        (i) Sixty days after the publication of notice of adoption of the comprehensive plan, development
regulation, or amendment to the plan or regulation, implementing the action, as provided under
RCW 36.70A.290(2); or
        (ii) If a petition for review to the growth management hearings board is timely filed, upon issuance
of the board's final order.
(Due to length, this provision abbreviated here)
        (5) Recommendations for meeting requirements.
        (a) Selecting and allocating countywide growth forecasts. This process should involve at least the
following:
         (i) The total countywide population is the sum of the population allocated to each city; the
population allocated to any portion of the urban growth area associated with cities; the population
allocated to any portion of the urban growth area not associated with a city; and the population growth
that is expected outside of the urban growth area. Counties and cities should use consistent growth
forecasts, allocations, and planning horizons. The planning horizon should start on the relevant deadline
specified in RCW 36.70A.130(5) and encompass 20 years.
        (ii) RCW 43.62.035 directs the office of financial management to provide a reasonable range of
high, medium and low 20-year population forecasts for each county in the state, with the medium forecast
being most likely. Counties and cities must plan for a total countywide population that falls within the
office of financial management range.
       (iii) Consideration of other population forecast data, trends, and implications. In selecting
population forecasts, counties and cities may consider the following:
       (A) Population forecasts from outside agencies, such as regional or metropolitan planning
agencies, and service providers.
        (B) Historical growth trends and factors which would cause those trends to change in the future.
        (C) General implications, including:
        (I) Public facilities and service implications. Counties and cities should carefully consider how to
finance the necessary facilities and should establish a phasing plan to ensure that development occurs at
urban densities; occurs in a contiguous and orderly manner; and is linked with provision of adequate
public facilities. These considerations are particularly important when considering forecasts closer to the
high end of the range. Jurisdictions considering a population forecast closer to the low end of the range
should closely monitor development and population growth trends to ensure actual growth does not
begin to exceed the planned capacity.
        (II) Overall land supplies. Counties and cities facing immediate physical or other land supply
limitations may consider these limitations in selecting a forecast. Counties and cities that identify
potential longer term land supply limitations should consider the extent to which current forecast options
would require increased densities or slower growth in the future.
        (III) Implications of short term updates. The act requires that 20-year growth forecasts and
designated urban growth areas be updated at a minimum during the periodic review of comprehensive
plans and development regulations (WAC 365-196-610). Counties and cities should consider the likely
timing of future updates, and the opportunities this provides for adjustments.
       (D) Counties and cities are not required to adopt forecasts for annual growth rates within the 20-
year period, but may choose to for planning purposes. If used, annual growth projections may assume a



                                                                                                  Page 9 of 17
consistent rate throughout the planning period, or may assume faster or slower than average growth in
certain periods, as long as they result in total growth consistent with the 20-year forecasts selected.
        (iv) Selection of a countywide employment forecast. Counties, in consultation with cities, should
adopt a 20-year countywide employment forecast to be allocated among urban growth areas, cities, and
the rural area. The following should be considered in this process:
        (A) The countywide population forecast, and the resulting ratio of forecast jobs to persons. This
ratio should be compared to past levels locally and other regions, and to desired policy objectives; and
       (B) Economic trends and forecasts produced by outside agencies or private sources.
        (v) Projections for commercial and industrial land needs. When establishing an urban growth area,
counties should designate sufficient commercial and industrial land. Although no office of financial
management forecasts are available for industrial or commercial land needs, counties and cities should
use a countywide employment forecast, available data on the current and projected local and regional
economies, and local demand for services driven by population growth. Counties and cities should
consider establishing a countywide estimate of commercial and industrial land needs to ensure
consistency of local plans.
        Counties and cities should consider the need for industrial lands in the economic development
element of their comprehensive plan. Counties and cities should avoid conversion of areas set aside for
industrial uses to other incompatible uses, to ensure the availability of suitable sites for industrial
development.
       (vi) Selection of community growth goals with respect to population, commercial and industrial
development and residential development.
        (vii) Selection of the densities a county or city seeks to achieve in relation to its growth goals.
Inside the urban growth areas, densities must be urban. Outside the urban growth areas, densities must
be rural.
       (b) Per subsection (1)(h) of this section and RCW 36.70A.130(5), each county that designates
urban growth areas must review periodically its designated urban growth areas.
      The purpose of the urban growth area review is to assess the capacity of the urban land to
accommodate population growth projected for the succeeding 20-year planning period.
       (i) This review should be conducted jointly with the affected cities.
        (ii) In conjunction with this review by the county, each city located within an urban growth area
shall review the densities permitted within its boundaries, and the extent to which the urban growth
occurring within the county has located within each city and the unincorporated portions of the urban
growth areas.
         (c) Counties and cities must use the selected population projection identified in subsection (1)(d)
of this section to determine the countywide projection of housing need by economic segment provided by
the department as prescribed in RCW 36.70A.070 (2)(a). Counties and cities must determine the
countywide projected housing need using data and methodology provided by the department. When
allocating projected housing needs for each jurisdiction within a county, counties and cities should use the
minimum standards described in WAC 365-196-410 (2)(c)(iii).
      (d) General considerations for determining the need for urban growth areas expansions to
accommodate projected population and employment growth.
      (i) Estimation of the number of new persons and jobs to be accommodated based on the difference
between the 20-year forecast and current population and employment.




                                                                                               Page 10 of 17
        (ii) Estimation of the capacity of current cities and urban growth areas to accommodate additional
population and employment over the 20-year planning period. This should be based on a land capacity
analysis, which may include the following:
       (A) Identification of the amount of developable residential, commercial, and industrial land, based
on inventories of currently undeveloped or partially developed urban lands.
       (B) Identification of the appropriate amount of greenbelt and open space to be preserved or
created in connection with the overall growth pattern and consistent with any adopted levels of service.
See WAC 365-196-335 for additional information.
       (C) Identification of the amount of developable urban land needed for the public facilities, public
services, and utilities necessary to support the likely level of development. See WAC 365-196-320 for
additional information.
        (D) Based on allowed land use development densities and intensities, a projection of the additional
urban population and employment growth that may occur on the available residential, commercial and
industrial land base. The projection should consider the portion of population and employment growth
which may occur through redevelopment of previously developed urban areas during the 20-year
planning period.
        (E) The land capacity analysis must be based on the assumption that growth will occur at urban
densities inside the urban growth area and is consistent with the housing types specified in the analysis of
housing need developed pursuant to RCW 36.70A.070(2). In formulating land capacity analyses, counties
and cities should consider data on past development, zoning to meet minimum housing requirements, as
well as factors which may cause trends to change in the future. For counties and cities subject to
RCW 36.70A.215, information from associated buildable lands reports should be considered. If past
development patterns have not resulted in urban densities, or have not resulted in a pattern of desired
development, counties and cities should use assumptions aligned with desired future development
patterns. Counties and cities should then implement strategies to better align future development
patterns with those desired.
         (F) The land capacity analysis may also include a reasonable land market supply factor, also
referred to as the "market factor." The purpose of the market factor is to account for the estimated
percentage of developable acres contained within an urban growth area that, due to fluctuating market
forces, is likely to remain undeveloped over the course of the 20-year planning period. The market factor
recognizes that not all developable land will be put to its maximum use because of owner preference, cost,
stability, quality, and location. If establishing a market factor, counties and cities should establish an
explicit market factor for the purposes of establishing the amount of needed land capacity. Counties and
cities may consider local circumstances in determining an appropriate market factor. Counties and cities
may also use a number derived from general information if local study data is not available.
       (iii) An estimation of the additional growth capacity of rural and other lands outside of existing
urban growth areas compared with future growth forecasted, and current urban and rural capacities.
        (iv) If future growth forecasts exceed the current combined capacities of unincorporated county
and city lands, counties and cities should first consider the potential of increasing capacity of existing
urban areas through allowances for higher densities, or for additional provisions to encourage
redevelopment. If counties and cities find that increasing the capacity of existing urban areas is not
feasible or appropriate based on the evidence they examine, counties and cities may consider expansion
of the urban growth area to meet the future growth forecast.
       (e) Determining the appropriate locations of new or expanded urban growth area boundaries. This
process should consider the following:
       (i) Selection of appropriate densities. For all jurisdictions planning under the act, the urban growth
area should represent the physical area where that jurisdiction's urban development vision can be


                                                                                               Page 11 of 17
realized over the next 20 years. The urban growth area should be based on densities which accommodate
urban growth, served by adequate public facilities, discourage sprawl, and promote goals of the act.
RCW 36.70A.110 requires that densities specified for land inside the urban growth area must be urban
densities. See WAC 365-196-300 for recommendations on determining appropriate urban densities.
        (ii) The county should attempt to define urban growth areas to accommodate the growth plans of
the cities. Urban growth areas should be defined so as to facilitate the transformation of services and
governance during the planning period. However, physical location or existing patterns of service make
some unincorporated areas which are characterized by urban growth inappropriate for inclusion in any
city's potential growth area.
       (iii) Identifying the location of any new lands added to the urban growth area. Lands should be
included in the urban growth area in the following priority order:
       (A) Existing incorporated areas;
       (B) Land that is already characterized by urban growth and has adequate public facilities and
services;
       (C) Land already characterized by urban growth, but requiring additional public facilities and
urban services; and
       (D) Lands adjacent to the above, but not meeting those criteria.
        (iv) Designating industrial lands. Counties and cities should consult with local economic
development organizations when identifying industrial lands to identify sites that are particularly well
suited for industry, considering factors such as:
       (A) Rail access;
       (B) Highway access;
       (C) Large parcel size;
       (D) Location along major electrical transmission lines;
       (E) Location along pipelines;
       (F) Location near or adjacent to ports and commercial navigation routes;
       (G) Availability of needed infrastructure; or
       (H) Absence of surrounding incompatible uses.
        (v) Consideration of resource lands issues. Urban growth areas should not be expanded into
designated agricultural, forest or resource lands unless no other option is available. Prior to expansion of
the urban growth area, counties and cities must first review the natural resource lands designation and
conclude the lands no longer meet the designation criteria for resource lands of long-term commercial
significance. Designated agricultural or forest resource lands may not be located inside the urban growth
area unless a county or city has enacted a program authorizing transfer or purchase of development
rights.
        (vi) Consideration of critical areas and wildfires. Although critical areas exist within urban areas,
counties and cities should avoid expanding the urban growth areas into areas with known critical areas
extending over a large area. Counties and cities should also consider the potential risk of wildland fires
when expanding the urban growth area into areas where structures and other development intermingles
with undeveloped wildland or vegetative fuels. See RCW 36.70A.110(8) for legislative direction on
expansion of urban growth areas into the 100-year flood plain of river segments that are located west of
the crest of the Cascade mountains and have a mean annual flow of 1,000 or more cubic feet per second.




                                                                                                Page 12 of 17
       (vii) Consideration of patterns of development within urban growth areas under
RCW 36.70A.130 (3)(a) and 36.70A.110(8). Evaluating patterns of development can help identify growth
pressures and the viability of existing and proposed urban growth areas. Local governments may want to
consider one or more methods for evaluating patterns of development from the following nonexclusive
list:
       (A) Based on population, permit data, types of development, and a land capacity analysis, identify
growth rates and patterns for the preceding 10 years. Calculate rates separately for the unincorporated
urban growth areas, and areas within incorporated cities and towns. Cities and towns may identify
subareas within their corporate boundaries for individual analysis. Counties and cities should not rely on
an evaluation of averages across the overall urban growth area or city boundary.
        (B) Make a determination as to consistency or inconsistency with the growth rates and patterns
that were envisioned in adopted countywide planning policies, comprehensive plans and development
regulations, and actual development that has occurred.
        (C) Make a determination as to consistency or inconsistency with assumed housing densities as
established under WAC 365-196-410 (2)(d).
        (D) Determine development capacity, building types, and patterns of development within each
identified area. Based on this analysis, determine the availability of land to serve projected growth within
each identified area for the 20-year planning period.
       (E) Compare the identified areas to determine areas of high development pressure, areas of low
development pressure, and areas with inadequate capacity to absorb their projected growth, including
projected housing need.
       (F) Make determinations on the viability of urban growth areas experiencing low development
pressure by considering barriers to growth such as:
       (I) Lack of available or planned infrastructure, including transportation facilities, as determined
through the capital facilities plan element and the transportation element.
       (II) Lack of adequate development regulations to ensure urban standards and levels of service.
        (III) Incompatible uses within or adjacent to the urban growth area. Examples include mining sites,
industrial sites, wastewater treatment facilities, brownfields, airports, military bases, and other uses that
produce high impacts.
       (IV) Parcelization and multiple ownerships that may limit redevelopment.
       (V) Site constraints including parcel access, steep slopes, floodplains, and other environmental
constraints.
       (VI) Market conditions that may deter development.
        (viii) Consideration of urban growth area swaps under RCW 36.70A.130 (3)(a). During a periodic
update counties may consider removal of a portion of the urban growth area and replacement with a new
area location if it is consistent with the requirements of RCW 36.70A.130 (3)(c) or 36.70A.110(8), as
applicable, and subsection (3) of this section.
       (A) Areas removed from the urban growth area must not include existing urban development.
Areas with public sewer, or other urban governmental services such as public water, transportation, and
stormwater facilities should not be removed from the UGA.
       (B) Counties and cities should consider (e)(vii) of this subsection when conducting an urban growth
area swap.
       (C) Counties and cities should coordinate on revisions to the urban growth area.



                                                                                               Page 13 of 17
      (ix) If there is physically no land available into which a city might expand, it may need to revise its
proposed urban densities or population levels in order to accommodate growth on its existing land base.
        (f) Evaluating the feasibility of the overall growth plan. Counties and cities should perform a check
on the feasibility of the overall plan to accommodate growth. If, as a result of this evaluation, the urban
growth area appears to have been drawn too small or too large, the proposal should be adjusted
accordingly. Counties and cities should evaluate:
        (i) The anticipated ability to finance the public facilities, public services, and open space needed in
the urban growth area over the planning period. When conducting a review of the urban growth areas,
counties and cities should develop an analysis of the fiscal impact of alternative land use patterns that
accommodate the growth anticipated over the succeeding 20-year period. Counties and cities should
identify revenue sources and develop a reasonable financial plan to support operation and maintenance
of existing facilities and services, and for new or expanded facilities to accommodate projected growth
over the 20-year planning period. The plan should ensure consistency between the land use element and
the capital facilities plan, and demonstrate that probable funding does not fall short of the projected
needs to maintain and operate public facilities, public services, and open space. This provides the public
and decision makers with an estimate of the fiscal consequences of various development patterns. This
analysis could be done in conjunction with the analysis required under the State Environmental Policy
Act.
        (ii) The effect that confining urban growth within the areas defined is likely to have on the price of
property and the impact thereof on the ability of residents of all economic strata to obtain housing they
can afford.
       (iii) Whether the level of population and economic growth contemplated can be achieved within
the capacity of available land and water resources and without environmental degradation.
         (iv) The extent to which the comprehensive plan of the county and of adjacent counties and cities
will influence the area needed.
        (g) County actions in adopting urban growth areas.
        (i) A change to the urban growth area is an amendment to the comprehensive plan and requires, at
a minimum, an amendment to the land use element. Counties and cities should also review and update the
transportation, capital facilities, utilities, and housing elements to maintain consistency and show how any
new areas added to the urban growth area will be provided with adequate public facilities. A modification
of any portion of the urban growth area affects the overall urban growth area size and has countywide
implications. Because of the significant amount of resources needed to conduct a review of the urban
growth area, and because some policy objectives require time to achieve, frequent, piecemeal expansion
of the urban growth area should be avoided. Site-specific proposals to expand the urban growth area
should be deferred until the next comprehensive review of the urban growth area.
       (ii) Counties and cities that are required to participate in the buildable lands program must first
have adopted and implemented reasonable measures as required by RCW 36.70A.215 before considering
expansion of an urban growth area.
       (iii) Consistent with countywide planning policies, counties and cities consulting on the
designation of urban growth areas should consider the following implementation steps:
       (A) Establishment of agreements regarding land use regulations and the provision of services in
that portion of the urban growth area outside of an existing city into which it is eventually expected to
expand.
        (B) Negotiation of agreements for appropriate allocation of financial burdens resulting from the
transition of land from county to city jurisdiction.



                                                                                                 Page 14 of 17
        (C) Provision for an ongoing collaborative process to assist in implementing countywide planning
policies, resolving regional issues, and adjusting growth boundaries.

Clark County Code
CCC 40.560.010(J) specifies criteria in evaluating Urban Growth Area boundary map changes.
        J. Additional Required Criteria Specific to Urban Growth Area (UGA) Boundary Map Changes.
       1. The county shall adopt countywide growth targets, and regional suballocations, and shall map
corresponding UGA boundaries and designations as follows:
         a. Adopt countywide twenty (20) year target population and employment levels consistent with
official State of Washington Office of Financial Management (OFM) population growth forecasts ranges;
and
        b. Officially suballocate the adopted countywide population and employment targets to urban
growth areas associated with each incorporated municipality in the county, and to the remaining rural
area; and
       c. Adopt urban growth area boundaries and comprehensive plan land use designations, which are
consistent in their sizes and designations, with the official suballocation for each UGA and the rural area.
         2. To allow for a comprehensive review and assessment of cumulative impacts, the county shall
initiate all UGA boundary review proposals as part of periodic review and update of the plan.
       3. To expand the UGA, the county shall demonstrate that necessary urban services can and will
be provided within ten (10) years’ time. This demonstration must include a need analysis estimating what
urban services will be required, both in the expansion area and elsewhere in the county, and estimates as
to when such services will be needed. Service providers shall submit written documentation indicating
when, how, at what cost, and from which funding sources service will be provided.
       4. A UGA boundary expansion must provide a twenty (20) year supply of vacant and buildable
lands within the UGA. The calculation of supply must be based on population growth projections within
the UGA, where such projections are consistent with adopted countywide growth targets and regional
suballocations. If necessary, the county may adjust countywide growth targets and regional
suballocations; provided, that they are consistent with official OFM forecasts.
      5. In evaluating potential changes to a particular UGA boundary, the county shall consider
countywide implications for other UGAs and their suballocations.
        6. The amendment does not include lands that are designated as natural resource (agricultural,
forest, mineral resource) unless such lands are de-designated pursuant to Chapter 36.70A RCW and
Chapter 365-190 WAC.
        7. The county shall exercise its best efforts to coordinate UGA boundary change proposals with
the affected city(ies), including the preparation of joint staff recommendations, where possible. Unless
waived by the affected city(ies), the county shall give those city(ies) at least sixty (60) days’ notice of the
proposal prior to a county hearing thereon.
        8. Except as provided for in RCW 36.70A.110(8), the county may not expand a UGA into the one
hundred (100) year floodplain of a river segment when the river has a mean annual flow of one thousand
(1,000) or more cubic feet per second.
        9. Sections 40.560.010 (J)(1) through (J)(8) do not apply to:
        a. Correction of obvious mapping errors involving a small area or few properties;
       b. An order from a court of competent jurisdiction or as a result of a Growth Management
Hearings Board remand.

                                                                                                  Page 15 of 17
Planning Assumptions
Table 1. Comprehensive Plan Update Key Planning Assumptions (from the DEIS)
 Planning Assumption                              Value
 2045 total population projection                 718,154
 Projected new residents                          190,754
 Assumed annual population growth rate            1.4%
 New housing units*                               103,695
 Persons per household*                           2.44
 Residential vacancy rate*                        6%
 County must assess housing needs in six          N/A
 income groups per new legislation
 2045 employment forecast                         269,000
 Assumed employment growth rate                   1.6%
 Jobs to household ratio                          1:1
 Urban residential zones - percent of land        31.5%
 assumed for infrastructure
 Commercial/industrial/business park zones        25%
 - percent of land assumed for infrastructure
 Vacant residential inventory expected to         90%
 develop by 2045
 Underused residential inventory expected         70%
 to develop by 2045
 Percentage of potentially critical land is not   50%
 critical and will develop
* As required by WA Department of Commerce Housing for All Planning Tool

Site-Specific Requests (SSRs)
RCW 36.70A.130(1)(d) requires Clark County to schedule consideration by the Council of revisions to the
comprehensive plan no more frequently than once every year. The Council adopted Resolution 2022-09-
03 on September 6, 2023, suspending annual reviews and dockets for 2023, 2024, and 2025. The Council
adopted Resolution 2025-09-01 on September 23, 2025, suspending the annual reviews and dockets in
2026 to avoid a conflict between RCW 36.70A.130(1)(d) and the new expected timeline for completion of
the 2025 comp plan update.
SSR’s are requests to amend the comprehensive plan and or zoning designation of property that are
submitted by the property owners. Approximately 198 parcel specific requests have been submitted for
the 2025 comp plan update, all of which have been included in the record. These requests were
considered and included in alternatives 2 and 3 for inclusion in the DEIS. Council recommended several
site-specific requests be included in the Preferred Alternative, only those requests were included in the
FEIS.




                                                                                             Page 16 of 17
Public Comments
As stated above, the comment period on the DEIS ended on November 30. The Planning Commission has
been sent all comments received by Community Planning during the comment period. All comments are
on the web at: https://clark.wa.gov/community-planning/2025-update-public-comment The county is
still taking general comments on the 2025 plan update.




                                                                                     Page 17 of 17
