                        Professional Services Agreement C-101771
                                     Amendment No. 1
                          Bridge Shelter Primary Services Provider

       This first amendment (“Amendment”) amends Professional Services Agreement number
C-101771(“Agreement”) between the City of Vancouver, (“City”), and Do Good Multnomah, an
Oregon non-profit corporation ("Contractor") and is effective on the last day signed by a Party.
Terms that are capitalized but undefined will have the meaning given them in the Agreement.

This Amendment amends the Agreement as follows:

    1. Section 1 Scope of Work, Attachment A, is amended to include the attached scope of
       work.

    2. Section 2 Compensation is amended as follows:

       Payment to the Contractor for the Services described in this Amendment shall not
       exceed $3,588,391.51 USD for a revised contract total of $3,738,391.51. The parties agree
       this amount excludes payment for Contractor’s provision of severe weather services,
       which will be subject to an amendment to the Agreement

    3. Section 15 Liability and Hold Harmless is deleted in its entirety and replaced as Section
       15 Indemnification, as follows:

       Contractor shall indemnify, defend if requested, and hold harmless City and its officers,
       councilmembers, commissioners, employees, volunteers, and agents, from any claim,
       liability, loss, cost, expense, suit, and damages, including attorney’s fees and consulting
       fees relating to (a) a third party claim for intellectual property infringement relating to
       the Contractor’s Services or the Deliverables; (b) Contractor’s negligence or willful
       misconduct; (c) Contractor’s material breach of the Agreement; (d) Contractor’s non-
       compliance with applicable law; (e) a third-party Washington Public Records Act claim
       involving Contractor information; and (f) Contractor’s court action to enjoin release of
       Contractor information under the Washington Public Records Act.

       City will promptly notify Contractor of a claim under this Section 15 and will provide
       reasonable cooperation to Contractor in the defense of the claim. Contractor will have
       control over defense and settlement of the claim, except that Contractor will not enter
       any settlement or related agreement without City’s prior written consent.
       Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, City may participate in the defense or
       settlement of any claim with counsel of its own choosing.

Amendment No. 1                                                                 Page 1 of 16
    4. Section 16 Insurance is amended as follows.

   Contractor shall maintain liability insurance for all claims for damages to the City, persons or
   property that arise from Contractor’s performance during the Term of this Agreement. The
   Parties agree that Contractor shall maintain the coverage amounts as described in the
   Agreement until Contractor increases its coverage as described below, which Contractor shall
   complete as soon as possible but not later than October 31, 2026 or at least two weeks prior
   to the Bridge Shelter opening date, whichever date is earlier.

   Contractor shall maintain the following insurance coverage from at least two weeks prior to the
   Bridge Shelter opening date. Contractor shall provide updated proof of insurance coverage to
   City upon receipt.

                                                                                      LIMITS OF
      COVERAGE
                                                                                      LIABILITY
      I. Commercial General Liability:
      Policy shall include Bodily Injury, Property Damage, Personal Injury and
      Broad Form Contractual Liability
                Each Occurrence                                                      $2,000,000
                General Aggregate Per Occurrence                                     $4,000,000
                Products & Completed Operations Aggregate                            $4,000,000
                Personal and Advertising Injury                                      $1,000,000
                Blanket Contractual Liability                                        $1,000,000
      II. Commercial Automobile Liability
      Policy shall include Bodily Injury and Property Damage for any owned,
      hired, and/or non-owned vehicles arising from the performance of this
      Agreement.
                Combined Single Limit                                                $1,000,000
      III. Workers' Compensation (applicable to the State of Washington)
      Per Occurrence
                Employer's Liability                                                 $1,000,000
                Disease Each Employee                                                $1,000,000
                Disease Policy Limit                                                 $1,000,000
                Each Claim                                                           $1,000,000
                Annual Aggregate                                                     $1,000,000
      IV. Umbrella Liability
      Policy shall include coverage for excess of Commercial General Liability,
      Commercial Auto Liability, and Workers’ Compensation. Per Occurrence           $5,000,000
      Annual Aggregate                                                               $5,000,000
      V. Professional Liability/Social Services Errors and Omissions
      Policy shall include coverage for all claims related to case management,
      peer support, housing navigation, care coordination, crisis intervention and
      other social/human services provided under the Agreement. Per
      Occurrence                                                                     $2,000,000
      Annual Aggregate                                                               $4,000,000
      VII. Cyber/Privacy Liability
       Policy shall include coverage for claims related to intellectual property
      infringement, privacy violations, data breaches, information theft,            $2,000,000

Amendment No. 1                                                                  Page 2 of 16
      damage to or destruction of City Data, intentional and/or unintentional
      release of City Data, and alteration of City Data, extortion, and network
      security. Per Occurrence
      Annual Aggregate                                                          $2,000,000
      VIII. Abuse & Molestation/Sexual Misconduct Liability
      Provided through individual policy or endorsement of other coverage. Per
      Occurrence.                                                               $2,000,000
      Annual Aggregate                                                          $4,000,000

   In addition to the coverage and limits listed above the Contractor’s insurance must all contain
   the following:

      a. Compliance with other Insurance Policies - Contractor will remain compliant with all
         other insurance obligations it may have pursuant to its personnel or applicable law.

      b. Primary and Non-Contributory. With respect to any claims arising out of or resulting
         from the Contractor's performance of the Agreement, Contractor's insurance must be
         primary and non-contributory with respect to any insurance or self-insurance
         maintained by the City. City insurance will be excess of the Contractor's insurance and
         will not contribute with it.

      c. Waiver of Subrogation. To the extent permitted by applicable policies, Contractor shall
         cause its Commercial General Liability, Commercial Automobile Liability, Workers'
         Compensation Liability, and Umbrella Liability insurers to waive rights of subrogation
         against the City, its officers, officials, employees, agents, and volunteers. The
         Contractor shall provide endorsements evidencing such waivers upon request by the
         City.

      d. Either the Commercial General Liability or the Workers’ Compensation policy must be
         endorsed to include “Washington Stop Gap” insurance. The limits and aggregates
         referenced must apply to the Stop Gap coverage as well and must be indicated on the
         certificate.

      e. Coverage Trigger. Contractor’s insurance must be on an “occurrence” basis rather than
         claims made, except that Professional Liability, Cyber/Privacy Liability, and Abuse &
         Molestation/Sexual Misconduct Liability may be written on a claims-made basis. For
         claims-made coverage, the retroactive date shall be no later than the commencement
         of services under this Agreement, and Contractor shall maintain continuous coverage
         or an extended reporting period for at least three (3) years following termination or
         expiration of this Agreement. The type of coverage must be indicated on the Certificate
         of Insurance.

      f.   Additional Insured Requirement - The City of Vancouver, its Agents, Representatives,
           Officers, Directors, Elected and Appointed Officials, and Employees must be named as
           additional insureds where permissible under applicable law. The required Additional

Amendment No. 1                                                                 Page 3 of 16
         Insured endorsements shall be at least as broad as ISO CG 20 10 11 85, or its equivalent
         CG 20 10 07 04 and CG 20 37 07 04 must be included with the Certificate of Insurance.

      g. Certificates - The City of Vancouver shall be listed on the Certificate of Insurance as
         the Certificate Holder. Contractor will provide the Certificate of Insurance to City upon
         request on an ACORD or comparable form.

   All policies shall be issued by an insurance company authorized to do business as an
   insurance company in the State of Washington.

    5. Section 23 Public Disclosure Compliance is deleted in its entirety and replaced as
       follows:

       A. City Records. Any record of City business, including this Agreement, related records,
          and City Data, is a public record under the Washington Public Records Act, codified
          at chapter 42.56 RCW (“PRA”). City may be required to disclose this Agreement or
          related records, including records in Contractor’s possession, pursuant to a public
          disclosure request. For the avoidance of doubt, City requires Contractor to maintain
          Services-related records pursuant to the Local Government CORE schedule
          available at local-government-common-records-retention-schedule-core-v.5.0-
          (october-2024).pdf. These records include security footage, which must be retained
          a minimum of 30 days. City will provide third-party notice to Contractor before
          disclosing records. Public records may be subject to exemptions from disclosure
          under the PRA. City agrees to withhold its release of the requested records in
          dispute for a reasonable amount of time (approximately 10 days) to allow
          Contractor an opportunity to seek judicial protection pursuant to RCW 42.56.540 as
          adopted or amended.

          “City Data” means the data City provides to Contractor in connection with the receipt
          of the Services and any data generated by Contractor in connection with providing
          the Services to City. City owns all City Data. City licenses City Data to Contractor solely
          for the purposes of providing the Services to City or improving the Services for City.
          Contractor shall not use City Data for any other purpose, includingas artificial
          intelligence training data. Contractor acknowledges that complying with applicable
          laws includes compliance with all applicable federal, state, and local data protection
          laws in its provision of the Services.

       B. Public Disclosure Compliance. City will comply with the PRA in its receipt of and
          response to any public disclosure request for responsive records related to this
          Agreement, subject to applicable exemptions. Under RCW 42.56.060, City will have
          no liability to Contractor for disclosure of Contractor information acting in good
          faith pursuant to its obligations under the PRA.

       C. Subpoenas. If either Party receives a subpoena requiring the disclosure of the other
          Party’s information, that Party will notify the other party and provide a reasonable
          time for the affected party to obtain a protective order prior to disclosing
          information. If a Party is prohibited by a court with jurisdiction over the matter from
          disclosing the subpoena, that Party will provide only the specific information
          required to be released under the subpoena on the advice of counsel.

Amendment No. 1                                                                   Page 4 of 16
        D. City Data Confidentiality. Notwithstanding Section 23(A-C), Contractor will maintain
           the confidentiality of all City Data in its possession.

    6. Sections 25, 26, and 27 are deleted from the Agreement.

    7. Entire Agreement. All unamended terms in the Agreement or any earlier amendment
       remain in full force and effect. This Amendment, together with the Agreement and any
       earlier amendments, is the entire agreement between the Parties, and supersedes any
       other agreement or discussion between them, whether written or oral in nature.

 CITY OF VANCOUVER:                                 CONTRACTOR:
 A municipal corporation                            Do Good Multnomah



 Lon Pluckhahn, City Manager                        Signature



 Date                                               Printed Name /Title

 Attest:
                                                    Date

 Anthony Glenn, Deputy City Clerk

 Approved as to form:



 Nena Cook, City Attorney’s Office




Amendment No. 1                                                                Page 5 of 16
                                          Attachment A
                                          Scope of Work

Phase 2: Bridge Shelter Ongoing Operations and Continuous Improvement

1. Staffing and Training for Bridge Shelter Operations.

1.1 The Provider shall maintain 24/7 staffing coverage with supervisory oversight. The Bridge
    Shelter will serve individuals with high and complex needs. The Provider shall staff and train
    appropriately to manage anticipated shelter-level acuity.

1.2 Training. Contractor shall train staff in the following areas:
        a. Trauma-informed care;
        b. Motivational interviewing;
        c. Harm reduction;
        d. De-escalation;
        e. Overdose response and Naloxone administration;
        f. CPR and first aid;
        g. Domestic violence awareness;
        h. Bloodborne pathogens and OSHA requirements;
        i. HMIS and incident documentation;
        j. Should we also include “other trainings coordinated by City”? (Since we pay CRMH to
           provide trainings for our whole system)

1.3 Staff Minimum Abilities. Contractor staff must be able to:
        a. Ensure site safety;
        b. Provide for regular case management engagement;
        c. Conduct perimeter checks;
        d. Respond to crisis situations.

1.4 When Problems Arise If patterns emerge indicating needs beyond the operational scope of a
    congregate shelter or Contractor capacity, the Contractor shall notify the City and participate
    in system-level planning to address service/capacity gaps.

2. Referral Activities.

2.1 Referral Process. Contractor shall develop a referral process to ensure effective partnerships
   with community organizations. Contractor must receive written approval from City before
   sharing the referral process with community organizations as described in Section X below.

2.2 Referral Partnerships. After its referral process is in place, Contractor shall partner with the
    following organizations to accept referrals for bridge shelter. City may approve additional
    referral partners in its discretion. Contractor shall partner with any City-approved referral
    partner. City may require Contractor to prioritize certain referrals based on City needs. :

Amendment No. 1                                                                    Page 6 of 16
        a.   HART and City encampment resolution efforts;
        b.   Law enforcement and jail reentry coordination;
        c.   Local hospitals and treatment facilities;
        d.   Behavioral health providers;
        e.   Other City approved referral partners.

2.3 Prohibited Activities. Contractor shall not establish bed set-asides or referral exclusivity
    arrangements without the City’s prior written approval.

2.4 Records. Contractor shall maintain records related to the referral process that identify
    referral source, participant characteristics, and referral/placement outcomes. Contractor
    will make changes to include additional data in referral records upon City’s request.

3. Participant Eligibility.

3.1 Eligibility Criteria. Contractor shall develop participant eligibility criteria and screening
    process criteria and provide to City for written approval before implementation. Contractor
    shall submit any changes to these criteria for City’s written approval. For the avoidance of
    doubt, Contractor shall not create any eligibility criteria that would have the effect of:
    automatically disqualifying a participant for substance use, criminal history, system
    involvement, or high service needs unless the disqualification is required by law or necessary
    to mitigate imminent safety risk.

3.2 Eligibility of persons living unsheltered in Clark County. The City and County have agreed that
    the City will make available space to participants living unsheltered in Clark County for the
    first four years of this SOW. Contractor may not exclude participants based on their Clark
    County living status during this period.

3.3 HUD definitions exceptions. Contractor must implement certain exceptions related to persons
    covered under the HUD definition of literal homelessness (24 CFR 578.3), which City will
    provide in writing.

4. Participant Related Services.

4.1 Code of Conduct, Participant and Community Agreements and Behavioral Accountability
    Contractor shall develop a written code of conduct and participant and community
    agreements and provide to City for written approval prior to implementation.

4.1.1   Contractor’s Code of Conduct must:
        a. Promote safety and mutual respect;
        b. Outline expectations regarding cleanliness, shared spaces, and neighbor impact;
        c. Include graduated intervention steps prior to involuntary exit when feasible.
        d. Include process or description of opportunities for participants to provide input or
           feedback on code of conduct or agreements.
Amendment No. 1                                                                  Page 7 of 16
4.2 Intake, Case Management, Stabilization (after eligibility determination)
    Contractor shall provide strengths-based, trauma-informed, and harm-reduction-oriented
    services to participants. Contractor’s services must include:
        a. Intake;
        b. Case management;
        c. Peer support;
        d. Housing and other systems’ navigation;
        e. Benefits enrollment support;
        f. Care coordination with treatment, healthcare, and other service providers;
        g. Employment and income stabilization support where appropriate.
        h. Other services as agreed by Parties.

4.3 Ongoing Participant Engagement. Contractor may use specific planning tools in connection
    with participants (e.g., WRAP, Independent Service Plans), however, Contractor must engage
    with participants as part of structured stabilization efforts at least weekly. Contractor shall
    promote appropriate next-step transitions to participants and ensure participants continue
    to progress in their individual stability, including through goal development and
    individualized support to modify and achieve those goals.

4.4 Participant Incidents. Contractor must document and report all incidents that require
    emergency services to City within 24 hours . However, incidents that involve serious physical
    harm or injury and other similar incidents must be reported within four hours. Contractor
    shall report to the City the person(s) involved, incident type, and outcome.

4.5 Participant Involuntary Exits. Contractor may remove participants immediately when
    participant behavior poses a threat to others’ safety as determined by Contractor.
    Contractor shall document and report involuntary exits to the City within one business day
    of the exit.

5. General Operations

5.1 Coordination with System Partners. Contractor shall operate the Bridge Shelter as part of a
    coordinated system, not as an isolated program. Contractor shall coordinate with:

       a.   City Safe Stay and Safe Park operators;
       b.   City Homeless Assistance and Resources Team (HART)
       c.   Northstar Clinic, the onsite Mobile Opioid Treatment services provider;
       d.   Clark County Jail/jail re-entry programs;
       e.   In-patient and outpatient facilities, including hospitals and treatment centers;
       f.   Domestic violence service providers;
       g.   The Southwest Washington Humane Society and other animal welfare partners;
       h.   Council for the Homeless and Homeless Management Information System (HMIS)
            administrators.


Amendment No. 1                                                                   Page 8 of 16
5.1.1 Privacy Practices. Contractor shall comply with all laws related to participant privacy and
shall participate in case conferencing and cross-program coordination in full conformance with
those laws.

5.2 Severe Weather and Emergency Operations. Contractor shall develop a continuity-of-
    operations plan to ensure services remain available 24 hours per day, seven days a week in
    the event of severe weather or an emergency, including staffing emergencies. Contractor
    shall provide this plan and any amendments to City for written approval prior to
    implementation.

5.2.1. Expanded Capacity during Severe Weather. Contractor may activate expanded capacity
within designated areas of the Bridge Shelter during severe weather events, consistent with life-
safety standards and City coordination. Contractor shall develop a plan for activating severe
weather overflow capacity and provide the plan and any amendments to City for written approval
prior to implementation. Activation criteria must align with the Clark County Severe Weather
Taskforce (facilitated by Council for the Homeless) criteria in effect at the time of the severe
weather event. Contractor shall inform City and the Clark County Severe Weather Taskforce of
plan activation as soon as the Contractor decides to activate the plan.

5.3 Facility maintenance, janitorial, and upkeep. The City shall retain responsibility for
maintenance, janitorial, and upkeep of the Bridge Shelter, and may do so through in-house
services or by contract with a third-party contractor. Contractor will be in the best position to
timely notify the City of any maintenance or janitorial service needs at the Bridge Shelter. As
such, Contractor must notify the City of any maintenance or janitorial service needs that it
discovers at the Bridge Shelter within 24 hours of discovery by Contractor. Failure to timely notify
City may constitute a material breach of this Agreement. City will provide and train Contractor
on a maintenance/janitorial service notification system.

6. Reporting.

6.1 Contractor Data Collection. Contractor shall collect and maintain data sufficient to support
    program oversight, system coordination, and reporting requirements associated with other
    funding partners on City-provided reporting forms on or before the monthly date determined
    by City.

6.2 Databases. Contractor shall use HMIS (Homeless Management Information System) and other
    data collection and reporting tool(s) as directed by the City. Contractor will timely enter all
    applicable data to ensure that monthly reports are accurate.

6.3 Monthly Reporting. Contractor shall provide a monthly status report in a format acceptable
    to the City. The City may modify reporting formats or metrics to align with program goals,
    funding requirements, or system needs at any time during the term of the Agreement and
    Contractor will comply with all modified City reporting requirements. Contractor must submit
    reports no later than the 5th day of the month following the month when Services were
Amendment No. 1                                                                   Page 9 of 16
   provided.

6.3.1 Report Requirements. Contractor must consider and report on both quantitative metrics
and qualitative insights. Contractor may not rely solely on housing outcomes as a success
measure. The Contractor shall report the following information monthly:

   a. Utilization and Population
         i.   Number of unique individuals served;
        ii.   Number of new admissions;
       iii.   Bed utilization rate;
       iv.    Average length of stay in shelter;
        v.    Demographic information of population served (if available);
       vi.    Percentage of persons entering from an unsheltered status;
   b. Participant Needs (if available)
         i.   Number of individuals with reported mental health needs;
        ii.   Number of individuals with reported opioid and/or substance use disorders, or
              barriers related to substance use;
   c. Number of individuals with significant physical health needs or barriers ;Engagement
      and Services:

         I.    Number of participants engaged in case management and/or peer support;
        II.    Number of participants accessing treatment and services provided at the Bridge
               Shelter and/or connected to available/accessible treatment options that a
               participant needs, desires, or prefers. Services include:
                  a. Behavioral health;
                  b. Substance use treatment;
                  c. Housing navigation;
                  d. Employment or job training;
                  e. Benefits and documentation support;
                  f. Transportation and other stabilization services.

6.4 Exit Outcomes:
        a. Percentage of successful exits into stable housing. Stable housing may include:
           housing that is owned or rented by a client with or without an ongoing or temporary
           subsidy (e.g., Permanent Supportive Housing, Rapid Rehousing, VASH), living with
           family or friends, recovery or transitional housing;
        b. Exit destinations, including:
                        i. Permanent housing;
                       ii. Supportive housing;
                      iii. Safe Stay or other shelter;
                      iv. Treatment or detox;
                       v. Medical or long-term care;
                      vi. Family reunification.
                     vii. Incarceration or other institutional setting
Amendment No. 1                                                              Page 10 of 16
       c. Percentage of participants returning to unsheltered homelessness directly from the
          bridge shelter.

6.5 Kitchen and Health-Related Reporting (required by PeaceHealth funding commitment)
        a. Monthly;
                      i. Number of unique individuals served through food services.

6.6 Quarterly/Annually (year end report)
       a. Number of unique individuals served;
       b. Housing outcomes;
       c. Health-related indicators (if available);
       d. Food insecurity indicators (if available);
       e. Culinary and nutrition education and job training participation;
       f. Community collaboration and volunteer engagement and hours;
       g. Resident satisfaction;

6.7 Animal Welfare Coordination:
       a. Number and type of animals sheltered;
       b. Number of animals receiving services through community partnerships (e.g., The
           Humane Society for Southwest Washington). Services may include: vaccinations,
           treatment, spay/neuter, training, etc.

6.7.2 System Trends and Observations: The Contractor shall report the following information
quarterly:
        a. Emerging participant needs;
        b. System gaps and barriers;
        c. Changes in acuity;
        d. Operational challenges;
Recommended system improvements.

7. Kitchen Management. Contractor shall manage and operate the Bridge Shelter kitchen and
   food service program. Contractor’s kitchen operation must function not only as a food
   service operation, but also as a programmatic asset that supports participant stability,
   health, skill-building, and community engagement.

7.1 Kitchen Operations and Management. Contractor shall:
        a. Oversee kitchen staffing, scheduling, and daily operations;
        b. Coordinate food sourcing, including use of community partners, food banks, and
           purchased goods as needed;
        c. Maintain inventory control and minimize food waste;
        d. Develop and implement written kitchen policies and procedures.

7.2 Food Service Delivery. Contractor shall:

Amendment No. 1                                                              Page 11 of 16
       a. Provide consistent access to meals and snacks for shelter participants, including at
          least two meals per day and additional food access as needed;
       b. Ensure food service operations comply with all applicable federal, state, and local
          health and food safety regulations;
       c. Maintain appropriate food handling, storage, and sanitation practices.

7.3 Equipment and Facility Coordination. Contractor shall:
       a. Use kitchen equipment only in accordance with manufacturer standards and facility
          requirements;
       b. Coordinate with the City regarding maintenance, repair, and replacement of kitchen
          equipment as outlined in Section 5, above; and
       c. Ensure compliance with any requirements required by PeaceHealth as directed by the
          City.

7.4 Participant Engagement and Skill-Building. The parties agree that participant engagement
    and skill building will begin one year after the Effective Date. Contractor shall:
       a. Create opportunities for participant involvement in kitchen-related activities where
           appropriate, which may include:
                   i.  Meal preparation support;
                  ii.  Culinary skill-building;
                 iii.  Nutrition education; and or
                 iv.   Workforce development opportunities in partnership with community
                       partners/providers.
       b. Contractor shall not require any participant to participate in kitchen activities and
           any participation is structured to support participant safety and program operations.

7.5 Volunteers and Community Food Contributions. Contractor shall:
        a. Develop and maintain written policies governing:
                  i.  Volunteer involvement in food preparation or service;
                 ii.  Acceptance and distribution of donated food;
                iii.  Food safety compliance for externally prepared meals;
        b. Ensure all volunteer and donation activities conform with health regulations and do
           not disrupt core operations.

7.6 Coordination and Reporting. Contractor shall:
       a. Coordinate with the City and relevant partners regarding kitchen use, programming
           opportunities, and reporting requirements;
             i.   Track and report data as required, which may include meals served, participant
                  engagement, and other metrics tied to funding or program outcomes.

7.7. Kitchen Policies. Contractor shall maintain policies consistent with this Section X and
     applicable law. Contractor and City will discuss any special events or other kitchen use and
     Contractor will reasonably agree to City requests so long as they do not unduly interrupt
     ongoing operations and comply with all applicable laws.
Amendment No. 1                                                                 Page 12 of 16
7.8 Prohibited Kitchen Use. Contractor is prohibited from using the Bridge Shelter kitchen for any
    purpose other than those purposes approved by City.

8. Community Impact Management and Neighborhood Relations. The Provider shall operate the
   Bridge Shelter in a manner that actively manages site-related impacts and supports positive
   relationships with the surrounding community, consistent with the City’s values and
   expectations. Additionally, Contractor shall proactively address probable impacts associated
   with shelter operations and participant activity. The Provider shall:

8.1 Impact Monitoring and Mitigation
           a. Conduct routine monitoring of the shelter perimeter and immediately adjacent
              areas;
           b. Address conditions reasonably associated with shelter operations, including litter,
              waste, loitering, or disturbances connected to participant activity;
           c. Maintain the exterior of the site and immediate surroundings in a clean and
              orderly condition;
           d. Reinforce expectations with participants regarding respectful behavior in
              surrounding public and private spaces;
           e. Make reasonable efforts to distinguish between shelter-related impacts and
              unrelated community conditions, and coordinate with City to ensure appropriate
              response.

8.1.2 Coordination with City, System, and Neighborhood Partners

           a.  Coordinate with the City, including HART and Public Works, and other relevant City
              and third-party partners to address recurring or escalated concerns;
           b. Notify City of ongoing or significant issues that may require additional response
              or clarification;
           c. Participate in problem-solving efforts with the City and community when patterns
              of concern emerge, including offering meeting opportunities and attending
              community and City meetings as needed.

8.1.3 Communication and Accessibility
          a. Maintain accessible communication channels (e.g., phone and/or email) for
             neighbors and community members;
          b. Ensure neighbors are informed of how to contact the Provider with concerns
             related to the shelter;
          c. Respond to concerns in a timely manner;
          d. Participate in neighborhood or neighborhood association meetings, as requested
             by the City or when appropriate to support communication and problem-solving.

8.1.4 Participant Expectations
            a. Incorporate expectations related to community impact into the shelter’s Code of
               Conduct/Community Agreements, including:
Amendment No. 1                                                                 Page 13 of 16
                    i. Respect for surrounding residents, businesses, and public spaces;
                   ii. Proper disposal of waste;
                  iii. Compliance with site boundaries and operational expectations.

8.1.5 Community Participation and Relationship-Building
Contractor shall engage in positive community-building efforts that support integration of the
shelter into the surrounding neighborhood. These efforts may include participation in
neighborhood events, coordination of voluntary cleanup efforts, or other activities that foster
constructive relationships. The Parties will work together to develop a boundary for these
activities.

Section 9. Continuous Improvement

9.1 Continuous Evaluation and Improvement
       The Parties understand that community conditions may evolve over time. Therefore, the
         Provider shall:
           a. Participate in ongoing evaluation of site-related impacts;
           b. Adjust operational practices, in coordination with the City, to improve outcomes
               for both participants and the surrounding community.

Section 10. Contract Review. Contract Review
10.1 The Parties will review the contract quarterly during the first year of this SOW, twice yearly
in the second year of this SOW and annually in year three and beyond to review other
opportunities for continuous improvement.




Amendment No. 1                                                                  Page 14 of 16
                  Attachment B
                  Fee Schedule




Amendment No. 1                  Page 15 of 16
Amendment No. 1   Page 1 of 16
