                           CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT # C-102360
                   ITB 26-32: Evergreen Neighborhood Park Improvements

        This Contract (hereinafter referred to as the “Contract”) is entered into by and between the
City of Vancouver, Washington, a municipal corporation organized under the laws of the State of
Washington (hereinafter referred to as the “City”) and Tikka WA Inc., 17412 NE 92nd Ave., Battle
Ground, WA 98604 (hereinafter referred to as the “Contractor”). The City and the Contractor may be
collectively referred to herein as the “Parties” or individually as a “Party.”

              WHEREAS, the City desires to engage the Contractor to provide public works
       construction and other related services for the work described herein;

               WHEREAS, Contractor has agreed to offer its services to perform said work per
       the City issued Invitation to Bid (ITB) No. 26-32 and all addenda thereto, Contractor’s
       Bid to said ITB, the Project Plan Set and Special Provisions, and City Council’s approval
       on Click here to enter a date per Staff Report No. ##-##; and

               WHEREAS, the Contractor represents by entering into this Contract that it is
       fully qualified to perform the work to which it will be assigned in a competent and
       professional manner, and to the standards required by the City.

    NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the terms, conditions, covenants, and performance
contained herein, or attached an incorporated and made a part hereof, the parties hereto agree as
follows:

1. STATEMENT OF WORK: The Contractor hereby agrees to furnish all materials, labor, tools,
   machinery and implements of every description necessary to complete the work in a professional
   manner within the time limits stated in this Contract for the construction and installation of the
   following improvements and will make all necessary arrangements for the obtaining of permits
   from the United States, State of Washington, and/or any of its agencies as may be necessary to do
   the work required and covered by this Contract.

   This Contract provides for the demolition, salvage, excavation and earthwork;
   Construction of concrete curb, slabs and walkways, asphalt paving and sewer, water and
   lighting utilities; Installation of a pre-engineered restroom, play equipment, synthetic turf
   and engineered wood fiber safety surfacing, picnic tables and trash receptacle, basketball
   equipment, signage; Irrigation modification and landscape planting restoration and other
   work, all in accordance with the attached Contract Plans, these Contract Provisions and
   the Standard Specifications.

   The Contract Work shall be Physically Complete no later than December 18, 2026.

2. EFFECTIVE DATE: This Contract is effective as of the last signature of the Contract.

3. E-VERIFY PROGRAM: Contractor shall register and enter into a Memorandum of Understanding
   (MOU) with the Department of Homeland Security E-Verify program within sixty days after
   execution of this Contract. Contractor shall ensure all Contractor employees and any
   subcontractor(s) assigned to perform work under this Contract are eligible to work in the United
   States. Contractor shall provide verification of compliance upon City request. Failure by
   Contractor to comply with this subsection shall be considered a material breach.

4. CONTRACTOR RESPONSIBLITIES FOR SUBCONTRACTOR: The Contractor shall include the
   language of this section in all tier subcontracts and shall require each of its subcontractors to
   include the same language of this section in each of their subcontracts, adjusting only as
   necessary the terms used for the contracting parties. The requirements of this section apply to
   all subcontractors regardless of tier. The Contractor shall require all subcontractors to comply
   with all federal, state and municipal laws, rules and regulations whatsoever.

   At any time of the subcontract execution, the Contractor shall verify that all tier subcontractors
   meet the following bidder responsibility criteria:

       a. Have a current certificate of registration in compliance with Chapter 18.27 RCW, which
          must have been in effect at the time of subcontract bid submittal.
       b. Have a current Washington Unified Business Identifier (UBI) number.
       c. Have received training on the requirements related to public works and prevailing wage
          as required by RCW 39.04.350.
       d. Within the three-year period immediately preceding the date of the bid solicitation, not
          have been determined by a final and binding citation and notice of assessment issued by
          the department of labor and industries or through civil judgement entered by a court of
          limited or general jurisdiction to have willfully violated, as defined in RCW 49.48.082, any
          provision of Chapter 49.46, 49.48 or 49.52 RCW.
       e. If applicable, have:
              i.   Industrial Insurance (worker’s compensation) coverage for the subcontractor’s
                   employees working in Washington, as required in Title 51 RCW.
             ii.   A Washington Employment Security Department reference number, as required
                   in Title 50 RCW.
            iii.   A Washington Department of Revenue state excise tax registration number, as
                   required in Title 82 RCW.
            iv.    An electrical contractor license, if required by Chapter 19.28 RCW.
             v.    An elevator contractor license, if required by Chapter 70.87 RCW.
       f. Not be disqualified from bidding on any public works contract under RCW 39.06.010 or
          39.12.065(3).

5. DELINQUENT STATE TAXES: The Contractor shall not owe delinquent taxes to the Washington
   State Department of Revenue without a payment plan approved by the Department of Revenue.

6. COMPENSATION AND SCHEDULE OF PAYMENTS: In consideration of the promises and
   agreements of the Contractor as set forth herein, and in consideration of the faithful performance
   and furnishing of the work and materials required by this Contract to the satisfaction of the City,
   the City agrees to pay to the Contractor as prescribed in the solicitation and Contractor’s Bid, and
   in accordance with the ordinances of the City of Vancouver and the laws of the State of
   Washington, the following sum as indicated, which amount does include 8.9% Washington State
   Sales Tax (if applicable) $448,222.61 USD.

   The amount finally to be paid is, however, variable upon the Work actually performed, and final
   payment will be made upon the basis of the amount of work performed and the materials
   furnished, and at the lump sum or unit prices fixed in the Contractor’s Bid as modified by any and
   all approved Change Orders.

7. CONTRACTOR’S INSURANCE: The Contractor agrees to the following requirements relating to
   insurance coverage. Provide a Certificate of Liability Insurance. Said certificate must be provided
   on a standard “ACORD” form, or its equivalent, and must provide that coverage shall not be
   canceled or modified without 30 days prior written notice to the City of Vancouver.

   The City of Vancouver may inspect all policies, and copies shall be provided to the City upon
   request. The Contractor shall obtain the insurance described in this section from insurers
   approved by the State Insurance Commissioner pursuant to RCW Title 48. The insurance must
   be provided by an insurer with a rating of A-: VII or higher in the A.M. Best’s Key Rating Guide,
   which is licensed to do business in the state of Washington (or issued as a surplus line by a
   Washington Surplus lines broker). The City reserves the right to approve or reject the insurance
   provided, based on the insurer (including financial condition), terms and coverage, the Certificate
   of Insurance, and/or endorsements.

   The Contractor agrees to procure insurance coverage as required below:

                                                                                 LIMITS         OF
         COVERAGE
                                                                                 LIABILITY
         I. Commercial General Liability:
         Policy shall include Bodily Injury, Property Damage, Personal Injury
         and Broad Form Contractual Liability
         Each Occurrence                                                         $1,000,000
         General Aggregate Per Occurrence                                        $2,000,000
         Products & Completed Operations Aggregate                               $2,000,000
         Personal and Advertising Injury                                         $1,000,000
         Blanket Contractual Liability                                           $1,000,000
         II. Commercial Automobile Liability
         Policy shall include Bodily Injury and Property Damage, for any
         owned, Hired, and/or non-owned vehicles used in the operation,
         installation and maintenance of facilities under this Contract.
         Combined Single Limit                                                   $1,000,000
         III. Workers' Compensation (applicable to the State of Washington)
         Per Occurrence                                                          Statutory
         Employer's Liability                                                    $1,000,000
         Disease Each Employee                                                   $1,000,000
         Disease Policy Limit                                                    $1,000,000
         Each Claim                                                              $1,000,000
         Annual Aggregate                                                        $2,000,000
         IV. Pollution Legal Liability
         Each Claim                                                              $1,000,000
         Annual Aggregate                                                        $2,000,000

   In addition to the coverage and limits listed above the Contractor’s insurance must all contain the
   following:
       a. City Listed as Additional Insured. The City of Vancouver, its Agents, Representatives,
          Officers, Directors, Elected and Appointed Officials, and Employees must be named as
          additional insured. The required Additional Insured endorsements shall be at least as
          broad as ISO CG 20 10 11 85, or its equivalent CG 20 10 07 04 and CG 20 37 07 04 must
          be included with the Certificate of Insurance.

       b. Either the Commercial General Liability or the Worker’s Compensation policy must be
          endorsed to include “Washington Stop Gap” insurance. The limits and aggregates
          referenced must apply to the Stop Gap coverage as well and must be indicated on the
          certificate.

       c. Commercial General Liability insurance shall be written on coverage forms at least as
          broad as ISO occurrence form CG 00 01, including but not limited to liability arising from
          premises, operations, stop gap liability, independent contractors, products-completed
          operations, personal and advertising injury, and liability assumed under an insured
          contract. There shall be no exclusion for liability arising from explosion, collapse or
          underground property damage. The Commercial General Liability insurance shall be
          endorsed to provide a per project general aggregate limit, using ISO form CG 25 03 05 09
          or an equivalent endorsement.

       d. The City of Vancouver shall be listed on the Certificate as Certificate Holder.

       e. Cover Trigger: The insurance must be written on an “occurrence” basis. This must be
          indicated on the Certificate.

       f.   Contractor shall ensure that each subcontractor of every tier obtains and maintains at a
            minimum the insurance coverages required for Commercial General Liability and Auto
            Liability. Upon request of the City, the Contractor shall provide evidence of such
            insurance.

       g. The Contractor shall keep this insurance in force during the term of the Contract and for
          thirty (30) days after the Physical Completion date. The Contractor shall provide the City
          and all Additional Insured with written notice of any policy cancellation, within two
          business        days        of       their      receipt       of       such        notice.

       h. Failure on the part of the Contractor to maintain the insurance as required shall
          constitute a material breach of contract, upon which the City may, suspend work or
          terminate the contract.

       i.   All costs for insurance shall be incidental to and included in the unit or lump sum prices
            of     the     contract    and      no    additional     payment      will    be    made.

8. CONTRACTOR’S BOND: The Contractor agrees that before it undertakes performance of this
   Contract, it will file with the City a Performance Bond and a Payment Bond, in the forms
   prescribed by the City of Vancouver, in the full amount of the Contract price with a company
   authorized to do business in the State of Washington as a surety. The bonds shall comply with
   the laws of the State of Washington, especially with the provisions of Chapter 39.08 RCW.

9. DISPUTE RESOLUTION: In the event of a dispute between the Parties which cannot be resolved
   by the contract managers, the Contractor and the City shall review such dispute and may attempt
   to resolve the dispute. Any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this Contract or
   alleged breach of this Contract that cannot be resolved by the Parties within 30 days of receipt of
   written notice may be submitted to mediation. If the dispute cannot be resolved through
   mediation, either party may initiate litigation pursuant to the governing law and venue
   provisions of this Contract. The Parties agree to pay their own attorneys’ fees and expenses.

10. GOVERNING LAW/VENUE: This Contract shall be deemed to have been executed and delivered
    within the State of Washington, and the rights and obligations of the parties hereunder shall be
    construed and enforced in accordance with, and governed by, the laws of the State of Washington
    without regard to the principles of conflict of laws. Any action or suit brought in connection with
    this Contract shall be brought in the Superior Court of Clark County, Washington.

11. EMPLOYMENT OF LABOR: The Contractor agrees that all persons employed by the Contractor
    and by any of its subcontractor and any of their lower tier contractors in work performed
    pursuant to this Contract shall not be employed in excess of eight (8) hours in any day, except as
    provided or allowed by Chapter 49.28 RCW and WAC 296.127 and any amendment thereto.

12. PAYMENT OF LABOR: The Contractor agrees that all laborers, workers, or mechanics employed
    by it or by any subcontractor in the performance of this Contract will be paid not less than the
    prevailing wage rate for an hour’s work, in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 39.12 RCW,
    and all rules and regulations promulgated pursuant thereto.

   The prevailing wage rates in effect at the time of the bid submittal deadline shall apply for the
   duration of the project, no matter how long it lasts. However, if the Contract is awarded more
   than six (6) months after the bids were due, the prevailing wage rates in effect on the award date
   shall apply.

   In case any dispute arises as to what the prevailing rate of wages for work of a similar nature are
   and such dispute cannot be adjusted by the parties involved, the matter shall be referred to the
   director of the Department of Labor and Industries of the State of Washington for arbitration, and
   the director’s decision shall be final, conclusive and binding on all parties involved in the dispute.

13. PAYMENT TO THE CONTRACTOR: Progress payments to the Contractor shall be made within
    30 days of a fully executed Pay Estimate pending all compliance with all contractual
    requirements. A sum equal to 5% may be reserved and retained from monies earned by the
    Contractor in accordance with Chapter 60.28 RCW. The City reserves the right to require
    Contractor to correct any submitted or paid erroneous invoices according to the rates set forth
    herein. City and Contractor agree that any amount paid in error by City does not constitute a
    change in the agreed upon amount; Contractor agrees to issue a refund of any of any overages
    paid in error by the City.

   Release of the retained percentage or the retainage bond shall be in accordance with Chapter
   60.28 RCW. Every person performing labor or furnishing supplies toward the completion of said
   improvement of work shall have a lien upon said monies so reserved; provided, that such notice
   of the lien of such claimant shall be given in the manner provided in RCW 39.08.030 and within
   the time provided in Chapter 60.28 RCW as now existing and in accordance with any amendments
   that may hereafter be made thereto.

   No payment shall be made to the Contract, however, until the Contractor and all subcontractors
   who have performed work shall have filed and received approval of a Statement of Intent to Pay
    Prevailing Wage as required by RCW 39.12.040 from the Washington State Department of Labor
    and Industries. Said Contractor and all subcontractors shall also keep accurate payroll records
    for three years from the date of acceptance as described in RCW 39.12.120. A Contractor and all
    subcontractors shall, file a copy of its certified payroll records using the Department of Labor and
    Industries online system on a monthly basis. A Contractor’s noncompliance with this section
    shall constitute a violation of RCW 39.12.050.

14. INDEMNIFICATION: Contractor agrees to indemnify, defend, save and hold harmless the City,
    its officials, employees and agents from any and all liability, including but not limited to demands,
    claims, causes of action, suits or judgements, claims of copyright or patent infringement,
    including costs, attorney fees and expenses incurred in connection therewith, or whatsoever kind
    or nature, arising out of, or in connection with, or incident to, the performance of services by
    Contractor pursuant to this Contract.

    In the event that any suit based on such a claim, demand, loss, damage, cost or cause of action is
    brought against the Contractor, the City retains the right to participate in said suit.

    This indemnity and hold harmless shall include any claim made against the City by an employee
    of the Contractor or subcontractor or agent of the Contractor, even if Contractor is thus otherwise
    immune from liability pursuant to worker’s compensation statute, Title 51 RCW. To the extent
    that such liability arises from the concurrent negligence of both the City and the Contractor, such
    cost, fees and expenses shall be shared between the City and the Contractor in proportion to their
    relative degrees of negligence. This indemnity and hold harmless shall NOT apply in the case
    where liability arises from the sole negligence of the City. The Contractor specifically
    acknowledges that the provisions contained herein have been mutually negotiated by the Parties
    and it is the intent of the Parties that Contractor provide the broadest scope of indemnity
    permitted by RCW 4.24.115.

15. OWNERSHIP OF RECORDS AND DOCUMENTS: Any and all work product prepared by the
    Contractor in the course of performing this Contract shall immediately become the property of
    the City. In consideration of the compensation provided for by this Contract, the Contractor
    hereby further assigns all copyright interests in such work product to the City. A copy may be
    retained by the Contractor. Previously owned intellectual property of Contractor or any third
    party, and any know-how, methodologies or processes used by Contractor to provide the services
    or project deliverables under this Contract shall remain property of the original City.

16. PUBLIC DISCLOSURE COMPLIANCE: The parties acknowledge that the City is an “agency”
    within the meaning of the Washington Public Records Act, Chapter 42.56 RCW, and that materials
    submitted by the Contractor to the City become public record. Such records may be subject to
    public disclosure, in whole or part and may be required to be released by the City in the event of
    a request for disclosure. In the event the City receives a public record request for any data or
    deliverable that is provided to the City and that is licensed from the Contractor, the City shall
    notify the Contractor of such request and withhold disclosure of such information for not less
    than five business days, to permit the Contractor to seek judicial protection of such information,
    provided that the Contractor shall be responsible for attorney fees and costs in such action and
    shall save and hold harmless the City from any costs, attorney fees or penalty assessment under
    Chapter 42.56 RCW for withholding or delaying public disclosure of such information.

17. COOPERATIVE PURCHASING: The Washington State interlocal Cooperation Act, Chapter 39.34
    RCW, authorizes public agencies to cooperatively purchase goods and services if all parties agree.
    By having executed this Agreement, the Contractor agrees that other public agencies may
    purchase goods and services under this solicitation or contract at their own cost and without the
    City incurring any financial or legal liability for such purchases. The City agrees to allow other
    public agencies to purchase goods and services under this solicitation or contract, provided that
    the City is not held financially or legally liable for purchases and that any public agency
    purchasing under solicitation or contract file a copy of this invitation and such contract in
    accordance with RCW 39.34.040.

18. AMENDMENTS: All changes to this Contract, including changes to the statement of work and
    compensation, must be made by written Change Order and/or Amendment and signed by all
    parties to this Contract.

19. AUTHORIZATION AND COMPLIANCE WITH THE LAW: The Contractor certifies that the
    person signing the Contract is legally authorized to enter into this binding Contract and that the
    Contractor shall fully comply with all relevant, federal, state and municipal laws, rules,
    regulations and policies.

20. CITY BUSINESS AND OCCUPATION LICENSE: The Contractor will be required to obtain a
    business license when contracting with the City unless allowable exemptions apply. The
    Contractor shall contact the State of Washington Business License Service website or by phone
    at 800-451-7985, or the City’s website to determine whether a business license is required
    pursuant to the Vancouver Municipal Code (VMC) Chapter 5.04.

21. RELATION OF PARTIES: The Contractor, its subcontractors, agents and employees are
    independent contractors performing services for the City and are not employees of the City; shall
    not as a result of this Contract, accrue leave, retirement, insurance, bonding or any other benefits
    afforded to City employees; and, shall not have the authority to bind the City in any way except
    as may be specifically provided in the Statement of Work.

22. ASSIGNMENT: This Contract is binding on each party, its successors, assigns, and legal
    representatives and may not, under any circumstances, be assigned or transferred by either party
    without the other party’s express written authorization.

23. TERMINATION FOR CONVENIENCE: The City, at its sole discretion, may terminate this Contract
    for convenience at any time for any reason deemed appropriate. Termination is effective
    immediately upon notice of termination given by the City.

    In the event this Contract is terminated prior to the completion of Work, Contractor will only be
    paid for the Work completed at the time of termination of the Contract.

24. TERMINATION FOR CAUSE: In the event the Contractor is, or has been, in violation of the terms
    of this Contract, including the solicitation, the City reserves the right, upon written notice to the
    Contractor, to cancel, terminate or suspend this Contract in whole or in part for default.
    Termination shall be effected by serving a notice of termination on the Contractor setting forth
    the manner in which the Contractor is in default. The Contractor will be paid only the contract
    price for services performed in accordance with the manner of performance set forth in the
    Contract.

    If it is later determined by the City that the Contractor had an excusable reason for not
    performing, such as a strike, fire or flood, or events which are not the fault of or are beyond the
    control of the Contractor, the City after setting up a new delivery or performance schedule, may
    allow the Contractor to continue work or treat the termination as a termination for convenience.

25. OPPORTUNITY TO CURE: The City at its sole discretion may in lieu of a termination allow the
    Contractor to cure the defect(s), by providing a “Notice to Cure” to Contractor setting forth the
    remedies sought by the City and the deadline to accomplish the remedies. If the Contractor fails
    to remedy to the City’s satisfaction the breach or default of any of the terms, covenants, or
    conditions of this Contract within the time stated time, the City shall have the right to terminate
    the Contract without any further obligation to the Contractor. Any such termination for default
    shall not in any way operate to preclude the city from also pursuing all available remedies against
    the Contractor and its sureties for said breach or default, including but not limited to, termination
    of this Contract for convenience.

26. WAIVER AND REMEDIES: City’s failure to enforce the terms or conditions herein or to exercise
    any right or privilege, or the City’s waiver of any breach hereunder shall not thereafter waive any
    other term, condition or privilege, whether of the same or similar type. Remedies under this
    Contract are cumulative; the use of one remedy shall not be taken to exclude or waive the right
    to use another.

27. ENTIRETY OF CONTRACT: This Contract incorporates all the agreements, covenants and
    understanding between the parties hereto and are merged into this written Contract. No prior
    agreement or prior understanding, verbal or otherwise, of the parties or their agents shall be
    valid or enforceable unless set forth in this Contract.

28. USE OF CITY’S NAME: Contractor may not use any of City’s name, trademark, service marks, or
    logo in connection with the services contemplated by this Contract or otherwise without the prior
    written permission of City, which permission may be withheld for any or no reason and may be
    subject to certain conditions.

29. DEBARMENT: The Contractor certifies that that it is not presently debarred, suspended,
    proposed for debarment, and declared ineligible or voluntarily excluded from covered
    transactions by any Federal, State or local department or agency.

30. NON-DISCRIMINATION AND EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY: During the term of this
    Contract, Contractor will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment in
    accordance with RCW Chapter 49.60, including, but not limited to creed, religion, race, color, age,
    sex, marital status, sexual orientation, sexual identity, pregnancy, military status, political
    ideology, ancestry, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical disability,
    unless based upon a bona fide occupational qualification. The Contractor will take affirmative
    action to ensure that applicants and employees are treated fairly, without regard to their creed,
    religion, race, color, sex, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical
    disability. Such action shall include all terms and conditions of employment, compensation and
    benefits, including apprenticeship.

31. BINDING EFFECT: The provisions, covenants and conditions in this Contract bind the parties,
    their legal heirs, representatives, successors and assigns.

32. RATIFICATION: Acts taken pursuant to this Contract but prior to its effective date are hereby
    ratified and confirmed.
33. CONTRACT DOCUMENTS AND ORDER OF PRECEDENCE: The complete Contract includes these
    parts, all of which are incorporated herein by reference, and any inconsistency in the parts of the
    contract shall be resolved by following this order of precedence (e.g., 1 presiding over 2, 2 over
    3, 3 over 4, and so forth):

               1.   Amendments to the Contract,
               2.   This Contract,
               3.   Contractor’s Bid including all Addenda to the Solicitation,
               4.   Special Provisions,
               5.   Contract Plan Set,
               6.   City of Vancouver Amendments to the specified WSDOT Standard Specifications,
               7.   City of Vancouver Standard Plans,
               8.   WSDOT Standard Specifications,
               9.   WSDOT Standard Plans.

   On the Contract Plans, Working Drawings and Standard Plans, figured dimensions shall take
   precedence over scaled dimensions.

   Whenever reference is made in these Specifications or the Special Provisions to codes, rules,
   specifications and standards, the reference shall be construed to mean the code, rule,
   specification or standard that is in effect on the Invitation to Bid advertisement date, unless
   otherwise stated or as required by law.

   If any part of the Contract requires Work that does not include a description for how the Work is
   to be performed, the Work shall be performed in accordance with standard trade practice(s). For
   purposes of the Contract, a standard trade practice is one having such regularity of observance
   in the trade as to justify an expectation that it will be observed by the Contractor in doing the
   Work.

34. NOTICES: All notices which are given or required to be given pursuant to this Contract shall be
    hand delivered, mailed postage paid or sent by electronic mail as follows:

               For the City:                                   For the Contractor:
               Anna Vogel                                      Justin Tikka
               City of Vancouver                               Tikka WA Inc.
               415 W 6th Street                                17412 NE 92nd Ave.
               P O Box 1995                                    Battle Ground, WA 98604
               Vancouver WA 98668-1995                         justin@tikkainc.com
               anna.vogel@cityofvancouver.us

The undersigned, as the authorized representatives of the City and Contractor respectively, agree to
all of the terms and conditions contained in this Contract, as of the dates set forth below.

 CITY OF VANCOUVER                                      CONTRACTOR:
 A municipal corporation                                Tikka WA Inc.



 Lon Pluckhahn, City Manager                            Signature
Date                        Printed Name /Title

Attest:
                            Date


Katie Shifley, City Clerk

Approved as to form:



Nena Cook, City Attorney
