                                   CITY OF VANCOUVER
                                  SERVICES AGREEMENT
                                      No. C-102350
                               Safe Stay 1 Service Provider

This Services Agreement (“Agreement”), effective on the date last signed below (the
“Effective Date”) is entered by the City of Vancouver, Washington, a municipal
corporation organized under the laws of the State of Washington ("City") and
OutsdiersInn.Org a Nonprofit Corporation organized under the laws of the State of
Washington ("Contractor"). The City and Contractor are collectively referred to as the
“Parties” or individually as a “Party”.

                                         RECITALS

   A. The City desires to engage the Contractor to perform Services as described
      in this Agreement; and

                                    AGREEMENT

In consideration of the terms and conditions in this Agreement, the Parties agree
as follows:

1. SCOPE OF SERVICES: The Contractor agrees to provide the City with all services and
   materials provided in the Scope of Services, attached as Exhibit A, and in the City’s
   Solicitation, if any, and the Contractor’s responsive proposal to the City’s Solicitation,
   if any (the “Services”). Contractor shall obtain City Project Manager’s written
   approval prior to starting the Services.

2. COMPENSATION: Payment to the Contractor for the Services described in this
   Agreement shall not exceed $ 960,520.00 USD.

   This payment shall be the maximum compensation for all Services including labor,
   materials, supplies, equipment, and incidentals necessary to complete the Services.
   And it shall not be exceeded without the City’s prior written authorization in the form
   of a negotiated and executed amendment. Contractor agrees this compensation is
   adequate and sufficient for the timely provision of all Services under this
   Agreement.

   City will limit compensation to the amount specified for each specific task and/or
   sub-task, unless amended in writing. Contractor shall complete the Services stated
   within the number of hours identified for each task, and/or sub-task, or for the lump
   sum amount associated with a task. If compensation is made on an hourly basis and
   the Services requires fewer hours than those estimated, the Contractor will be paid
   for the actual worked hours necessary to complete that task and/or sub-task. If
   Contractor underestimated the number of hours required to perform the Services,
   Contractor shall be paid up to the maximum number of hours stated for the task
   and/or sub-task. Compensation may be amended, at the City’s sole discretion, for
   documentable circumstances not reasonably foreseeable to either party at the time
   the task and/or subtask is initiated, or for changes to the scope of services requested
   by City. All Deliverables (as defined in Section 6) must be acceptable to City in its sole
   discretion.

   ,

3. PAYMENT FOR CONTRACTOR SERVICES: The Contractor shall submit monthly invoices
   to City covering both professional fees and project expenses, if any, from the previous
   month. Invoices must be submitted to the Project Manager, Jamie Spinelli, by email
   to jamie.spinelli@cityofvancouver.us and accpay@cityofvancouver.us or by mail to
   City of Vancouver, Jamie Spinelli, PO Box 1995, Vancouver, WA 98668.

   City shall pay Contractor within 30 days of receipt of Contractor’s invoice. The City will
   pay Contractor pursuant to Exhibit “B.” The City may correct any invoice overpaid
   in error.

   During the life of this Agreement, and in consideration of the City’s business needs,
   the Contractor may make requests for compensation adjustments. In consideration
   of market conditions, the City may allow an annual adjustment to compensation paid
   supported by the Consumer Price Index for the Seattle-Tacoma-Bellevue area for the
   previous four quarters. Contractor shall submit the request for consideration,
   together with supporting documentation, before the anniversary date of this
   Agreement. The City will review the request and, at its sole discretion, make a
   decision. If accepted, the adjustment shall become effective on the anniversary date
   of the Agreement and will be firm for the remainder of the contracted period. All
   adjustments will be authorized by written contract amendment
   The Parties agree that any amount paid in error by City does not alter the fee
   schedule. City’s contract/purchase order (PO) number on the notice to proceed must
   be referenced on any invoice submitted for payment.

4. TERM OF AGREEMENT: The term of this Agreement begins on the October 1, 2026 and
   continues until September 30, 2031. The Parties may agree in writing to renew the
   Agreement up to 5 additional years. However, the total term, including any
   renewal(s), shall not exceed ten years. The term and any renewal term are
   collectively the “Term.”

5. CITY DATA; DATA SECURITY

5.1 City Data. Contractor may obtain and process City Data in connection with the
    Services. “City Data” means the data City provides to Contractor in connection with
    the receipt of the Services and any data generated by Contractor in connection with
    providing the Services to City. City owns all City Data. City licenses City Data to
    Contractor solely for the purposes of providing the Services to City or improving
    the Services for City. Contractor shall not use City Data for any other purpose,
    including as artificial intelligence training data. Contractor acknowledges that
    compliance with Applicable Laws under Section 17 of the Agreement includes
    compliance with all applicable federal, state, and local data protection laws in its
    provision of the Services.

5.2 Data Security. If Contractor maintains City Data on Contractor systems it will comply
    with the following data security requirements.

   5.2.1 Security Practices. Contractor shall develop, implement, and maintain
         appropriate administrative, physical, and technical safeguards that are
         designed to ensure the confidentiality, integrity and availability of City Data.
         Contractor will enact safeguards that are compliant with industry best
         practices for the specific City Data obtained by Contractor in connection with
         the Services.

   5.2.2 Location of City Data. Contractor shall maintain City Data solely in data
         centers located in the United States.

   5.2.3 Security Breaches. A “Security Breach” is any suspected or actual
         unauthorized access to or use of City Data in Contractor’s possession.

        a. Notice. Contractor will notify City within 24 hours of any Security Breach.
           Notice will include details regarding the Security Breach including
           impacted parties, specific data, and mitigation. Contractor will call
           360.487.8888 (if after hours, follow prompt to connect to on-call
           personnel);       email     City      with     a     read      receipt     to
           help.desk@cityofvancouver.us; and email to the City personnel contact for
           the Agreement.
        b. Coordination. Immediately after Contractor provides notification of a
           Security Breach the Parties will begin working together to contain, mitigate,
           investigate, respond to and remediate the Security Breach. Contractor will
           cooperate with all City requests in relation to the Security Breach in
           compliance with Applicable Law.
        c. Root Cause Analysis. As soon as possible following the Security Breach,
           Contractor will complete a root cause analysis and will provide a plan to
           City for remediation and prevention.
        d. Third-Party Notice. Contractor will work together with City to ensure
           compliance with RCW 19.255.010 if necessary and will make no statement
           or send notice to any third party regarding the Security Breach without
           City’s prior written consent.
        e. Costs. In addition to its indemnification obligations, Contractor will
           reimburse City for all costs City incurs associated with any Security Breach,
           including forensic investigation, costs of providing notice to impacted
           parties, call centers and credit monitoring as applicable. Contractor will
           pay or reimburse City for all regulatory fines and other legal costs the City
           incurs associated with the Security Breach.

6. DELIVERABLES - INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Contractor may create documents or
   other work product in connection with providing the Services (“Deliverables”).
   Contractor assigns and will assign to City all right, title, and interest in and to any
   Deliverables it creates in connection with providing the Services. Contractor may
   retain a copy of any Deliverable for its internal business purposes. Contractor’s know-
   how, methodologies and processes are Contractor intellectual property. Contractor
   grants City a perpetual, irrevocable, royalty-free, worldwide license to use all
   Contractor intellectual property in connection with the Deliverables for any City
   purpose.

7. AUDIT RIGHTS: Contractor shall maintain records of all matters related to this
   Agreement in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
   Contractor shall provide the records to City or any other governmental agency with
   jurisdiction for audit, at such reasonable times and places as City designates.

8. PUBLIC DISCLOSURE COMPLIANCE: Records relating to Agreement are subject to the
   following:
8.1 Confidential Information. Any record of City business, including this Agreement,
    related records, and City Data, is a public record under the Washington Public
    Records Act, codified at chapter 42.56 RCW (“PRA”). City may be required to disclose
    this Agreement or related records, including records in Contractor’s possession,
    pursuant to a public disclosure request. City will provide third-party notice to
    Contractor before disclosing records. Public records may be subject to exemptions
    from disclosure under the PRA. City agrees to withhold its release of the requested
    records in dispute for a reasonable amount of time (approximately 10 days) to allow
    Contractor an opportunity to seek judicial protection pursuant to RCW 42.56.540 as
    adopted or amended.

8.2 Public Disclosure Compliance.
    a. City Records. Any record of City business, including this Agreement, related
       records, and City Data, is a public record under the Washington Public Records
       Act, codified at chapter 42.56 RCW (“PRA”). City may be required to disclose this
       Agreement or related records, including records in Contractor’s possession,
       pursuant to a public disclosure request. For the avoidance of doubt, City
       requires Contractor to maintain Services-related records pursuant to the Local
       Government CORE schedule available at local-government-common-records-
       retention-schedule-core-v.5.0-(october-2024).pdf. These records include
       security footage, which must be retained a minimum of 30 days. City will provide
       third-party notice to Contractor before disclosing records. Public records may
       be subject to exemptions from disclosure under the PRA. City agrees to withhold
       its release of the requested records in dispute for a reasonable amount of time
       (approximately 10 days) to allow Contractor an opportunity to seek judicial
       protection pursuant to RCW 42.56.540 as adopted or amended.

      “City Data” means the data City provides to Contractor in connection with the
      receipt of the Services and any data generated by Contractor in connection with
      providing the Services to City. City owns all City Data. City licenses City Data to
      Contractor solely for the purposes of providing the Services to City or improving
      the Services for City. Contractor shall not use City Data for any other purpose,
      including as artificial intelligence training data. Contractor acknowledges that
      complying with applicable laws includes compliance with all applicable federal,
      state, and local data protection laws in its provision of the Services.

   b. Public Disclosure Compliance. City will comply with the PRA in its receipt of and
      response to any public disclosure request for responsive records related to this
      Agreement, subject to applicable exemptions. Under RCW 42.56.060, City will
      have no liability to Contractor for disclosure of Contractor information acting in
      good faith pursuant to its obligations under the PRA.

   c. Subpoenas. If either Party receives a subpoena requiring the disclosure of the
      other Party’s information, that Party will notify the other party and provide a
      reasonable time for the affected party to obtain a protective order prior to
       disclosing information. If a Party is prohibited by a court with jurisdiction over
       the matter from disclosing the subpoena, that Party will provide only the
       specific information required to be released under the subpoena on the advice
       of counsel.

   d. City Data Confidentiality. Notwithstanding Section 23(A-C), Contractor will
      maintain the confidentiality of all City Data in its possession.

8.3 Subpoenas. If either Party receives a subpoena requiring the disclosure of the other
    Party’s information, that Party will notify the other party and provide a reasonable
    time for the affected party to obtain a protective order prior to disclosing
    information. If a Party is prohibited by a court with jurisdiction over the matter from
    disclosing the subpoena, that Party will provide only the specific information
    required to be released under the subpoena on the advice of counsel.

8.4 City Data Confidentiality. Notwithstanding Section 8.1-3, Contractor will maintain
   the confidentiality of all City Data in its possession in conformance with Section 8.

9. STANDARD OF CARE: Contractor shall exercise the degree of skill and diligence
   normally employed by consultants in the same industry, performing the same or
   similar services. Contractor will re-perform any Services that breach this provision
   at no cost to City.

10. DISPUTE RESOLUTION: City and Contractor agree to negotiate in good faith for a
    period of 30 days from the date of notice of all disputes between them prior to
    exercising their rights under this Agreement or under law. All disputes between City
    and Contractor not resolved by negotiation between the Parties may be mediated
    only by mutual agreement of both Parties. If not mutually agreed to resolve the
    claim by mediation, the claim will be resolved by legal action. The Parties agree
    that if litigation is necessary to enforce any of the provisions of this Agreement,
    each party shall pay all of their own attorney fees and costs related to the litigation.

11. TERMINATION FOR CONVENIENCE: City may terminate this Agreement at any time for
    convenience. City will pay Contractor for all Services completed up to the date of
    termination for convenience. A decision by City to terminate for convenience does
    not waive any legal rights City has to enforce the Agreement.



12. INDEMNIFICATION: Contractor shall indemnify, defend, and hold harmless City and
    its officers, councilmembers, commissioners, employees, volunteers, and agents,
    from any claim, liability, loss, cost, expense, suit, and damages, including attorney’s
   fees and consulting fees relating to (a) a third party claim for intellectual property
   infringement relating to the Contractor’s Services or the Deliverables; (b)
   Contractor’s negligence or willful misconduct; (c) Contractor’s material breach of
   the Agreement; (d) Contractor’s non-compliance with applicable law; (e) a third-
   party Washington Public Records Act claim involving Contractor information; and
   (f) Contractor’s court action to enjoin release of Contractor information under the
   Washington Public Records Act.

   City will promptly notify Contractor of a claim under this Section 12 and will provide
   reasonable cooperation to Contractor in the defense of the claim. Contractor will
   have control over defense and settlement of the claim, except that Contractor will
   not enter any settlement or related agreement without City’s prior written consent.
   Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, City may participate in the defense or
   settlement of any claim with counsel of its own choosing.

   Solely for negligence indemnification claims under (b) above, if Contractor is
   providing architectural, landscape architectural, engineering, or land surveying
   services as the Services under this Agreement, and Contractor and City are
   concurrently negligent, then Contractor will be required to indemnify City only to
   the extent of Contractor’s negligence and will have no obligation to indemnify City
   for City’s sole negligence, pursuant to RCW 4.24.115.

   If Contractor or Contractor’s employee is a licensed architect, professional
   engineer, land surveyor, or landscape architect and the Services are related to a
   construction project, Contractor expressly waives its industrial insurance immunity
   under the Washington Industrial Insurance Act Title 51 RCW. Contractor
   acknowledges this waiver has been mutually negotiated and the Parties desire to
   incorporate this waiver pursuant to RCW 4.24.115(1)(b).

13. INSURANCE: Contractor shall maintain liability insurance for all claims for damages
    to the City, persons or property that arise from Contractor’s performance during the
    Term of this Agreement.

   Contractor shall maintain the following insurance coverage.
                                                                          LIMITS OF
   COVERAGE
                                                                          LIABILITY
   I. Commercial General Liability:
   Policy shall include Bodily Injury, Property Damage, Personal Injury
   and Broad Form Contractual Liability
            Each Occurrence                                               $1,000,000
            General Aggregate Per Occurrence                              $2,000,000
            Products & Completed Operations Aggregate                     $2,000,000
            Personal and Advertising Injury                               $1,000,000
            Blanket Contractual Liability                                 $1,000,000
   II. Commercial Automobile Liability
   Policy shall include Bodily Injury and Property Damage for any
   owned, hired, and/or non-owned vehicles arising from the
   performance of this Agreement.
            Combined Single Limit                                         $1,000,000
   III. Workers' Compensation (applicable to the State of Washington)
   Per Occurrence
            Employer's Liability                                          $1,000,000
            Disease Each Employee                                         $1,000,000
            Disease Policy Limit                                          $1,000,000
            Each Claim                                                    $1,000,000
            Annual Aggregate                                              $1,000,000
   IV. Umbrella Liability
   Each Claim                                                             $1.000.000
   Annual Aggregate                                                       $5,000,000

In addition to the coverage and limits listed above the Contractor’s insurance must
all contain the following:

   a. Compliance with other Insurance Policies - Contractor will remain compliant
      with all other insurance obligations it may have pursuant to its personnel or
      applicable law.

   b. Coverage Trigger - Contractor’s insurance must be on an “occurrence” basis
      rather than claims made. This type of coverage must be indicated on the
      Certificate of Insurance.

   c. Additional Insured Requirement - The City of Vancouver, its Agents,
      Representatives, Officers, Directors, Elected and Appointed Officials, and
      Employees must be named as additional insureds where permissible under
      applicable law. The required Additional Insured endorsements shall be at
          least as broad as ISO CG 20 10 11 85, or its equivalent CG 20 10 07 04 and CG
          20 37 07 04 must be included with the Certificate of Insurance.

       d. Certificates - The City of Vancouver shall be listed on the Certificate of
          Insurance as the Certificate Holder. Contractor will provide the Certificate of
          Insurance to City upon request on an ACORD or comparable form.

   All policies shall be issued by an insurance company authorized to do business as
   an insurance company in the State of Washington.

14. RELATIONSHIP OF THE PARTIES. The relationship of the Parties under this
    Agreement is that of independent contractors. Contractor is solely responsible for
    the manner, method, and means of providing the Services. Contractor and its
    employees are not City employees and will not be entitled to or receive any benefits
    under this Agreement. Contractor will pay all Contractor personnel and pay all
    taxes, contributions, and benefits that may be required related to its personnel.
    Neither Party may bind the other except as expressly stated in this Agreement.

15. SUBCONTRACTING: Contractor may subcontract for Services with City’s prior written
    approval in its sole discretion.      Contractor is solely responsible for its
    subcontractors’ compliance with this Agreement and will pass through the terms of
    this Agreement to all subcontractors.

16. COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAW: Contractor shall comply with all applicable
    federal, state, and local laws, rules, and regulations (“Applicable Laws”). Contractor
    shall modify the Services as necessary to comply with Applicable Laws.

17. E-VERIFY: Contractor shall enter into and register a Memorandum of Understanding
    with the Department of Homeland Security E-Verify program within 60 days of
    executing this Agreement. Contractor shall ensure all Contractor employees and
    any subcontractors assigned to perform Services under this Agreement are eligible
    to work in the United States. Contractor shall provide compliance verification upon
    City’s request.

18. TITLE VI COMPLIANCE: Depending on the Services Contractor provides, the City may
    use federal funds to compensate Contractor. If federal funds are used. the City,
    Contractor, and any approved subcontractor must comply with the provisions of
    Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, (78 Stat. 252, 42 U.S.C. 2000d to 2000d-4) (CRA)
    and the Civil Rights Restoration Act of 1987, Pub. L. No. 100-259, 102 Stat. 28 (1988)
   (CRRA). Contractor must confirm with City whether Title VI is applicable under this
   Agreement.


19. EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY: The City is an equal opportunity employer.
    Contractor shall not discriminate against any of its employees or applicants for
    employment on the basis of race, color, creed, religion, sex (including gender
    identity, sexual orientation, and pregnancy), national origin, citizenship or
    immigration status, age (40 or older), the presence of any sensory, mental, or
    physical disability or the use of a trained dog guide or service animal by a person
    with a disability, genetic information, honorably discharged veteran or military
    status, or any other class protected by federal, state, or local employment
    discrimination laws.

20. ANTI-KICKBACK. City officers and employees shall not have or acquire an interest in
    the Agreement or solicit, accept, or give any item of value from a person or entity
    with an interest in this Agreement.

21. PERMITS, LICENSES, AND CERTIFICATIONS. Contractor is solely responsible for any
    license, permit or certificate that may be required by any federal, state or local law
    in connection with the performance of Contractor’s obligations under this
    Agreement, including any business license. Contractor may contact the State of
    Washington       Business       License    Service    (BLS)    at:      800-451-7985,
    www.bls.dor.wa.gov/cities/vancouver.aspx or visit the City’s website found at
    www.cityofvancouver.us/businesslicense for assistance with the determination.

22. COOPERATIVE PURCHASING: The Washington State Interlocal Cooperation Act,
    chapter 39.34 RCW, authorizes public agencies to cooperatively purchase goods and
    services if all parties agree. By executing this Agreement, Contractor agrees that
    other public agencies may purchase goods and services under this Agreement at
    their own cost. City will have no liability or obligation related to Contractor related
    to that separate agency agreement. Therefore, City agrees to allow other public
    agencies to purchase services under this Agreement so long as City is not held
    financially or legally liable for any separate agency services received pursuant to
    the Agreement, and that any public agency purchasing under this Agreement file a
    copy of it in accordance with RCW 39.34.040.
23. DEBARMENT: Contractor certifies that it is not presently debarred, suspended,
    proposed for debarment, and declared ineligible or voluntarily excluded from
    covered transactions by any federal, state or local department or agency.

24. NOTICES: All notices will be hand delivered, certified mail, or sent by electronic mail
    if agreed by the Parties. Notice will be effective when received if hand delivered, on
    the delivery date if certified mail, or when an email is sent. Notice must be
    addressed to the Parties at:

      For the City:                             For the Contractor:
      Anna Vogel                                Adam Kravitz
      City of Vancouver                         OutsidersInn.org
      415 W 6th Street                          5301 NE 56th Avenue
      P O Box 1995                              Vancouver, WA 98661
      Vancouver WA 98668-1995                   Email: outsidersinnorg@gmail.com
      Email: anna.vogel@cityofvancouver.us

   Either Party may update its address for notice by giving written notice to the other
Party.

25. ASSIGNMENT. Contractor shall not assign this Agreement without the express
    written consent of City. Any assignment in violation of this subsection is void. All
    terms of this Agreement are binding on any assignee.

26. ORDER OF PRECEDENCE: If there is a conflict between the terms of any document, the
    order of precedence is as follows: Amendments to this Agreement; this Agreement;
    Contractor’s responsive proposal to City’s solicitation; and City’s solicitation. The
    Parties agree that terms included on any Purchase Order or other document provided
    by Contractor are not part of this Agreement.

27. SURVIVAL. Sections 15 - 35 will survive any termination of this Agreement.

28. WAIVER. A Party’s waiver of any term of this Agreement must be in writing and
    signed by the Party waiving compliance.

29. THIRD PARTY BENEFICIARIES. There are no third-party beneficiaries under this
    Agreement.
30. GOVERNING LAW: This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of Washington
    without regard to its conflicts of laws provisions. Venue for any action arising under
   this Agreement will be the state or federal courts for Clark County, Washington. The
   Parties waive any claim of inconvenient forum.

31. SEVERABILITY. If a court with jurisdiction over the matter determines any clause of
    this Agreement is unenforceable, it shall revise the clause to reflect the intent of
    the Parties as closely as possible. If revision is not possible, the Court shall strike
    the clause and the remainder of the Agreement will remain in full force and effect.

32. AMENDMENTS: Any amendments to this Agreement must be in writing and signed by
    all Parties to this Agreement.

33. ENTIRE AGREEMENT: This Agreement, together with any amendments, is the entire
    agreement between the Parties, and supersedes any other agreement or discussion
    between them, whether written or oral in nature.

34. COUNTERPARTS. This Agreement may be signed in counterparts. Each counterpart
    will be deemed an original and together the separate parts will form one
    Agreement.

City and Contractor enter the Agreement as of the Effective Date.

 CITY OF VANCOUVER                               CONTRACTOR:
 A municipal corporation                         OutsidersInn.org



 Lon Pluckhahn, City Manager                     Signature


 Date                                            Printed Name /Title

 Attest:
                                                 Date


 Anthony Glenn, Deputy City Clerk

 Approved as to form:



 City Attorney’s Office
                                     EXHIBIT “A”:

                                    Scope of Work

The Contractor shall be responsible to do the following:

   1. Manage the site and day-to-day operations of the supported camp site(s);
   2. Amending a base Code of Conduct with the campsite residents to meet their
       needs while still meeting community expectations about the site;
   3. Enforce a Code of Conduct and identify the process for removing those
       individuals not following the rules;
   4. Register and track clients in the Homeless Management Information System;
   5. Assist clients with housing navigation services as a pathway to permanent
       housing;
   6. Provide strengths-based and trauma informed support and engagement to
       individuals in camp community; and facilitate/coordinate connection to other
       community partners to provide supportive services on-site such as mental
       health counseling, substance use treatment, legal assistance, enrollment in
       benefits,, literacy training, medical, dental care etc.;
   7. Manage snacks and develop and enforce policy on receiving food from outside
       people/agencies;
   8. Provide an ambassador to monitor activity outside the perimeter of the facility
       to mitigate loitering around the site and help the City maintain its commitment
       as a Good Neighbor.
   9. Maintain timely and accurate records which reflect service levels, participant
       characteristics, specific actions taken to assist participants, service outcomes,
       and expenditures
   10. Work, in partnership, with Homeless Action Response Team (HART) and other
       City staff, regarding operational problem-solving and community
       communications about the sites.

The City of Vancouver purchases and provides to Contractor certain property for use
at the Safe Stay. These items may include but are not limited to sheds, and appliances
(“City Property”). The City owns City Property. Contractor is prohibited from removing
any City Property from the Safe Stay without City’s prior written consent. Contractor
must inform the City in writing about any City Property that becomes unusable and
how the City Property became unusable within 15 days of the occurrence. If the City
Property has become unusable for any reason other than normal wear and tear or
product failure (example: carport has faulty roof that leaks) Contractor must replace
the unusable City Property at its cost. Contractor must obtain City’s prior written
consent for any replacement that substitutes a different brand or style for the
unusable City Property.

City will reimburse Contractor’s replacement purchase for normal wear and tear or
product failure. City may reimburse Contractor’s other City Property replacement
purchases in its discretion with prior written consent. For the avoidance of doubt, all
City Property that the City has purchased and provided to Contractor prior to the date
of this Amendment but during the Agreement is covered under this Amendment.
Exhibit C includes the current list of City Property subject to this Amendment. The City
may amend Exhibit C without notice to Contractor to maintain a complete list of City
Property. The City will send Contractor a copy of Exhibit C upon any list amendments.

To ensure that the program is well coordinated, City staff will hold weekly joint
meetings with the Provider with the goal of ensuring that the City and Provider remain
on the same page as it relates to how the sites run and address any issues in a timely
manner. The Provider will use this opportunity to bring up any challenges faced and
make requests of the city for desired programmatic changes. The City will provide
feedback to the Provider, make observations as to how the program is being run and
make recommendations to the Provider.

The Provider shall have a grievance and complaint procedure. Both procedures should
be in writing and be developed in compliance with federal law regarding
discrimination. Such procedures should include timelines for response or action and
shall be available to any individual requesting a copy. The grievance process should
include informal and formal resolution of the problem, including a
mediation/arbitration process, if needed. The City reserves the right to review and
approve the Provider’s grievance and complaint procedures.

The Provider shall meet all licensing requirements that apply to its organization.
Agencies must license, report and pay revenue taxes for the Washington State Business
License and City of Vancouver Business License, if they are required by the laws of
those jurisdictions.

The City will be responsible for providing the following:

      1) Site locations
      2) On-site office/storage
      3) Utilities—water, wastewater, storm water, solid waste, electricity and gas
         services;
                4) Garbage and sanitation services
                5) Portable restrooms and handwashing stations
                6) Fencing, and
                7) Other potential physical infrastructure needs

        Performance Measures


    Result               Indicator                    Strategy                        Measure
Program         •   Participant retention •   Quality service delivery   •   # of participants with
participants        rate                  •   Clean and welcoming            negative exit from site
feel safe and   •   Resident                  facility                   •   # of residents participating
welcome in          participation in site •   Cultural competence in         in Resident
the program         supports                  service delivery               Council/community
                                          •   Provider/Resident              meetings
                                              collaboration in           •   # of residents accessing
                                              needed/wanted                  available services on-site or
                                              supports and services          in community
Increased       •   Positive exits from •     Partnering with            •   # of residents accessing
stability,          site                      community health               mental/physical/behavioral
health and      •   Fewer contacts with       workers and other              healthcare
wellness for        emergency services        community-based            •   # of calls to emergency
residents       •   Increased                 service providers              services
                    employment/income •       Providing employment       •   Conducting exit interviews
                                              opportunities within           and follow-up with
                                              site, and partnering           residents exiting, when
                                              with other low-barrier         possible
                                              employment                 •   # of residents with
                                              opportunities                  increased income and/or
                                                                             employment activities
Program         •   Average length of     •   Housing –focused           •   # of exits to permanent
participants        program stay before       program                        housing
acquire             housing acquisition   •   Acquisition of benefits    •   Length of time in program
permanent       •   Exits to permanent        that reduce barriers to        prior to housing acquisition
housing             housing                   housing
    Result              Indicator                  Strategy                        Measure
Neighborhood •     Reduced awareness    • Behavior modification        • # of calls to police in
crime and          of incidents related     strategies                    neighborhood related to
disorder are       to unsheltered       • Enforcement code of             unsheltered homelessness
not increasing     homelessness in the      conduct                    • # of security incident
and                surrounding          • Collaborative problem           reports generated within
community          neighborhood             solving with City             specified time period
residents      •   Community            • Enhanced cooperation         •  Community perception of
support            members report           with police services          safety (qualitative)
program            feeling safe and     • Provider and residents       • # of community
                   support the site         participate in                activities/meetings
                                            neighborhood                  participated in
                                            activities/neighborhood
                                            association meetings
        The City of Vancouver wants to ensure that its investments make a real difference in
        the lives of the community and are aligned with practical, evidence-based outcomes.
        The following are the City’s expectations of measures of success with these three
        overarching goals:

           1. That staff and clients work together on the primary goal of acquiring permanent
              housing, to include all other services which help reduce and remove barriers to
              housing.
           2. That the site is a safe, clean, and welcoming space
           3. That the neighborhood impacts are mitigated



        Reporting
        The Provider will be required to input client-level data, program services/activities,
        unduplicated numbers of individuals assisted, and program outcomes in the Homeless
        Management Information System (HMIS) and provide documentation on how the
        Operator is either currently using or has a plan for participating in the Clark County
        HMIS

           •   The Operator will provide a monthly report, to be received no later than the 5th
               of the month and which will include:
                   o Total # of clients served (unduplicated)
                   o # of services accessed by type
                         Peer Support services
                         Laundry Services
                         Transportation/Local transit support
         IDs/documentation obtained
         Housing assessments completed
         Other
o   # of referrals to partner agencies, including kind of services referred to
         Inpatient detox/treatment services
         Medication Assisted Treatment services
         Ongoing case management
         Housing assistance
         Other
o   # of residents who obtained medical insurance
o   # of residents accessing mental/physical/behavioral healthcare
o   # of clients who obtained employment/increased income
o   # of housing assessments completed
o   # of successful outcomes to housing and breakdown of housing
    type/program referred to
o   # of clients barred or discharged from program
o   Average length of stay in program prior to housing acquisition
o   Demographics
         # of male clients
         # of female clients
         # of transgender and/or non-binary clients
         # of couples living together
         Racial breakdown
         Breakdown by age
o   # of activities to promote health and wellness, and client stability
o   # of community engagement/connection activities and description of
    those activities
o   # of calls for emergency services to site and description
o   List of trainings participated in by staff and/or residents
o   Qualitative summary which includes:
         A review of the month
         Two stories of success
         Two challenges
         Steps to be taken to address challenges
         Any support needed from the City
 EXHIBIT “B”:
Fee Schedule
                                      EXHIBIT “C”:
                                     City Property


-   Tents
-   Sheds
-   Security Cameras
-   Spare pallet supplies including: air conditioners, heaters, mattresses, box springs,
    smoke detectors/carbon detectors.
-   Refrigerator
