Succeeding DACW57-5-21-0028                           Lease No. DACW57-5-26-0025


                        U.S. GOVERNMENT
                    LEASE FOR REAL PROPERTY
                               For
              PORTLAND DISTRICT CORPS OF ENGINEERS’
     ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTION DIVISION WASHINGTON OFFICE


This LEASE AGREEMENT (Agreement) is made, entered into and effective as of
October 1, 2026 (the “Effective Date”) pursuant to Title 10 United State Code, Section
2661 by and between City of Vancouver, a Washington Municipal Corporation,
hereinafter referred to as the LESSOR, and the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
acting through THE UNITED STATES ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS, hereinafter
referred to as the LESSEE, and, collectively referred to as the “Parties”.

1. LOCATION OF THE LEASED PREMISES: The LESSOR hereby Leases to the
LESSEE the following described premises: Exclusive use of approximately 0.365
acres (15,930 square feet, more or less) of land located at 4480 SE Columbia Way
Vancouver Washington 98661, which is a portion of Lot #201, NE 1/4,S36,T2N,R1E of
the Willamette Meridian in Clark County, Washington. See Exhibit “A”, Site Plan,
attached hereto and made a part hereof, to be use for Government purposes.

2. LEASE TERM AND COMMENCEMENT OF RENTAL DATE: TO HAVE AND TO
HOLD the said premises with their appurtenances for the term beginning on October
1, 2026, through September 30, 2027, subject to termination and renewal rights as
may be hereinafter set forth and subject to adequate appropriation of funds by
Congress for year to year or for a lesser period of time, under the same terms,
conditions, and considerations provided herein. The LESSEE shall provide written
notice to the LESSOR of the LESSEE’s intent to renew this Lease at least thirty (30)
days prior to the expiration date of the current term. If the LESSEE does not provide
written notice to the LESSOR of the LESSEE's intent to renew this Lease prior to
the expiration date of the current Lease term, this Lease will expire, with no further
notice being required from LESSEE, at the end of the current Lease term, and
provided further that this Lease shall in no event extend beyond September 30,
2031.

3. RENTAL: The LESSEE shall pay the LESSOR annual rent of twelve thousand
Dollars ($12,000) per year at the rate of $1,000 per calendar month in arrears.
Consideration for a lesser period shall be prorated. All payments by the LESSEE
under the terms of this Lease shall be made payable to CITY OF VANCOUVER, PO
Box 1995, Vancouver, WA 98668-1995 via electronic funds, as required by P.L. 104-
134 (10 U.S.C. § 3322), transfer by the USACE Finance Center, 5722 Integrity Drive,
Millington, Tennessee 38054-5005.




                                          1
Succeeding DACW57-5-21-0028                           Lease No. DACW57-5-26-0025


4. OWNERSHIP: The LESSOR warrants the rightful and legal owner of the
property and has the legal right to enter into this Lease. If the title of the LESSOR
shall fail,or it be discovered that the LESSOR did not have the authority to Lease
the property, the Lease shall terminate. The LESSOR, the LESSOR's heirs,
executors, administrators, successors, or assigns agree to indemnify the LESSEE
by reason of such failure and to refund all rents paid.

5. CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP: In the event of a change of ownership of the
leased premises, the LESSOR agrees to notify the LESSEE of the impending
change of ownership and further agrees to furnish the LESSEE a copy of the
recorded assignments, or other proof of ownership, as may be requested by the
LESSEE

6. EXCLUSIVE USE: The LESSOR shall not interfere with or restrict the LESSEE,
or its representative in the use and enjoyment of the leased property, nor shall the
LESSOR erect any fence, wall, partition or any construction upon the leased
property except as otherwise agreed to in writing by the LESSEE.

7. TERMINATION:

       a. The LESSEE may terminate this Lease at any time in whole or in part, by
giving 30 days’ notice in writing to the LESSOR and no rental shall be due for
payment after the effective day of termination. Said notice shall be the day after
the day of mailing, or hand delivery.

     b. Termination in whole or in part shall be effective upon written notice,
however, the parties may enter into a supplemental agreement to resolve certain
issues arising from the tenancy and its termination, in whole or in part.

      c. The LESSOR may terminate this Lease at any time, by giving 365 days’
notice in writing to the LESSEE and no rental shall be due for payment after the
effective day of termination. Said notice shall be the day after the day of mailing,
or hand delivery.

8. ALTERATIONS/RESTORATION/RELEASE OF LIABILITY: The LESSEE shall
have the right, during the existence of this Lease, to make alterations, attach
fixtures, erect additions, structures or signs, in or upon the premises hereby
leased, which fixtures, additions, structures, or signs so placed in, upon or
attached to the said premises shall be and remain the property of the LESSEE
and may be removed or left in place at the option of the LESSEE. In the event
property of the LESSEE is left in place upon expiration or termination of this Lease,
said property shall become the property of LESSOR. The LESSOR hereby
Leases and forever discharges the LESSEE, its officers, employees and/or
contractors from any and all liability, claims or demands for site restoration of
the leased premises.



                                          2
Succeeding DACW57-5-21-0028                           Lease No. DACW57-5-26-0025


9. HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES: LESSEE shall comply fully with all laws
pertaining to the protection of human health and the environment, including but
not limited to employee and community right to know laws and all laws
regarding the use, generation, storage, transportation, treatment, disposal or
other handling of hazardous substances. The LESSEE shall promptly advise the
LESSOR in writing of any hazardous substances regulated by such laws that
are used, generated, manufactured, stored, transported or otherwise handled
on the Property. The LESSEE shall exercise extreme care in handling any
hazardous substances and shall not cause or permit hazardous substances to
be spilled, leaked, disposed of or otherwise leased on the Property. The term
"hazardous substances" is used in its very broadest sense, and refers to
materials which because of their quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause or pose a present or potential
hazard to human health or the environment when improperly handled, treated,
stored, transported, disposed of, or otherwise managed. The term shall
include, but is not limited to, all hazardous substances, hazardous materials
and hazardous wastes listed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
and the state in which the Property is located under the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), the Toxic Substances
Control Act (TSCA), and the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (FWPCA), and
comparable state statutes.

10. DAMAGES: The LESSEE shall not be liable for damages, other than for
damages resulting from the negligence or misconduct of the LESSEE
personnel. The LESSEE shall not be liable for any loss, destruction or damage
to the premises beyond the control and without the fault of negligence of the
LESSEE, including, but not limited to acts of nature, fire, lightning, floods, or
severe weather. The parties agree that any settlement of damages by the
LESSEE, if any, shall be done at termination of the Lease.

11. TAXES: The LESSOR accepts full and sole responsibility for the payment of
all taxes and other charges of a public nature which may arise in connection
with this Lease, or which may be assessed against the property.

12. NOTICES: Any notice under the terms of this Lease shall be in writing signed by
a duly authorized representative of the party giving official notice will reference the
Lease number and be addressed to the LESSEE at:

District Engineer, Portland District Corps of Engineers
ATTN: CENWP-RE
P.O. Box 2946
Portland, Oregon 97208-2946

Any notice under the terms of this Lease shall be in writing signed by a duly
authorized representative of the party giving such notice, and if given by the LESSEE
shall be addressed to the LESSOR at:

                                          3
Succeeding DACW57-5-21-0028                           Lease No. DACW57-5-26-0025


City of Vancouver
Attn: Linda Carlson
PO Box 1995
Vancouver, WA 98668-1995

13. LESSOR’S SUCCESSORS: The terms and provisions of this Lease and the
conditions shall bind the LESSOR, and the LESSOR’s heirs, executors,
administrators, successors, and assigns.

14. COVENANT AGAINST CONTINGENT FEES: The LESSOR warrants that no
person or selling agency has been employed or retained to solicit or secure this Lease
upon an agreement or understanding for a commission, percentage, brokerage, or
contingent fee, excepting bona fine employees or bona fide established commercial or
selling agencies maintained by the LESSOR for the purpose of securing business. For
breach or violation of this warranty the LESSEE shall have the right to annul this
Lease without liability or in its discretion to deduct from the Lease price or
consideration the full amount of such commission percentage, brokerage, or
contingent fee.

15. OFFICALS NOT TO BENEFIT: No Member of or Delegate to Congress or
Resident Commissioner shall be admitted to any share or part of this Lease or to
any benefit that may arise there from, but this provision shall not be construed to
extend to this Lease if made with a corporation for its general benefit.

16. GRATUITIES:

       a. The LESSEE may, by written notice to the LESSOR, terminate the right
of the LESSOR to proceed under this Lease if it is found, after notice and hearing,
by the Secretary of the Army or his duly authorized representative, that gratuities
(in the formof entertainment, gifts, or otherwise) were offered or given by the
LESSOR, or any agentor representative of the LESSOR, to any officer or employee
of the LESSEE with a view toward securing a Lease or securing favorable
treatment with respect to the awarding or amending, or the making of any
determinations with respect to the performing, of such Lease; provided that the
existence of facts upon which the Secretary of the Army or his duly authorized
representative makes such findings shall be in issue and may be reviewed in any
competent court.

        b. In the event this Lease is terminated as provided in paragraph (a) hereof,
the LESSEE shall be entitled (I) to pursue the same remedies against the LESSOR
as it could pursue in the event of a breach of the Lease by the LESSOR, and (ii)
as a penalty in addition to any other damages to which it may be entitled by law,
to exemplary damages in an amount (as determined by the Secretary of the Army or
his duly authorized representative) which shall be not less than three nor more than
ten times the costs incurred by the LESSOR in providing any such gratuities to any
such officer or employee.


                                          4
Succeeding DACW57-5-21-0028                           Lease No. DACW57-5-26-0025


      c. The rights and remedies of the LESSEE provided in this clause shall not
be exclusive and are in addition to any other rights and remedies provided by law
or underthis Lease.

17. EXAMINATION OF RECORDS: The LESSOR agrees that the Comptroller
General of the United States or any duly authorized representatives shall, until the
expiration of three (3) years after final payment of the agreed rental, have access to
and the right to examine any directly pertinent books, documents, papers and
records of the LESSOR involving transactions related to this Lease.

18. MODIFICATION: No change or modification of this Lease shall be effective
unless it’s in writing and signed by both parties to this Lease.

19. SERVICE AND UTILITES: Services and utilities shall be paid by the LESSEE,
and are to include electricity, sewer, telephone and any other utilities used on, or
furnished to the premises.

20. INSURANCE: The LESSEE warrants and represents that it is self-insured for
liability, automobile, and worker's compensation purposes and will be responsible for
any and all claims it causes during the occupancy of the described leased
premises to the extent permitted by Federal Law.

21. ATTACHMENTS: The following are attached and made a part hereof:

      a. General Clauses (GSA FORM 3517A)
      b. Exhibit “A”, Site Plan
      c. Representations and Certifications
      d. Certificate of Authority


                             {Signature Page to Follow}




                                          5
Succeeding DACW57-5-21-0028                      Lease No. DACW57-5-26-0025


IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have hereunto subscribed their name as
of the date first above written.



                          LESSOR: City of Vancouver



                   By: ________________________________
                              LON PLUCKHAHN
                                City Manager



                 LESSEE: THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA



                   By: ________________________________
                               OLIVER W. KING
                           Chief, Real Estate Division
                         Real Estate Contracting Officer




                                      6
