                                                      MEMORANDUM

DATE:        August 27, 2026

TO:          Chair Adigweme and Planning Commission Members

FROM:        Becky Rude, Deputy City Attorney, City Attorney’s Office

RE:          Overview of Public Hearing Voting and Parliamentary Procedure

CC:          Rebecca Kennedy, Deputy Director, Community Development Department


Vancouver’s Planning Commission (“PC” or “Commission”) is tasked with advising and
making recommendations on the City’s comprehensive plan, land use code, and certain
types of development applications to City Council, as authorized by Section 8.02 of the
Vancouver City Charter and through the Vancouver Municipal Code (VMC Section
20.220.010) in accordance with the authority and responsibilities set forth in VMC
20.220.010(C).

The Planning Commission conducts its work as a deliberative body during open public
meetings and certain final actions are required to be made through formal public
hearings, both in accordance with fair and transparent procedures. As a refresher for
Commissioners, this memorandum summarizes parliamentary procedures for public
hearing conduct and voting requirements, as required for the Commission by VMC
20.220.010(G), and as outlined in the Planning Commission Handbook (page 26) and the
PC Bylaws.

The Planning Commission is broadly charged with reviewing and making
recommendations to City Council on Comprehensive Plan and zoning code text and map
changes and master plans greater than 25 acres in size. The PC may also have additional
powers and duties, as prescribed by Chapter 35.63 RCW, other applicable state law, and
the VMC.

Under VMC 20.220.010(C), the Planning Commission is specifically responsible for:




 P.O. Box 1995 | Vancouver, WA 98668-1995 | 360-487-8000 | TTY: 711 | cityofvancouver.us
   1. Formal review of actions listed under Chapters 20.210 and 20.285 VMC, and
      review of SEPA [State Environmental Policy Act] appeals filed pursuant to such
      actions.
   2. Informal or advisory review of studies, analysis or reports related to land use
      matters as directed by City Council.
   3. Other duties related to land use matters as directed by City Council, provided
      they are not inconsistent with state law.

To facilitate the effective conduct of public hearings, the Planning Commission Bylaws
(excerpts included below) expressly references Robert’s Rules of Order for the
parliamentary procedures of meeting conduct for the Commission. The PC Handbook
includes a Public Hearing Preamble (attached here as Appendix A) and a Parliamentary
Procedure Guide (attached here as Appendix B). Appendix C includes a general synopsis
of essential parliamentary procedure guidelines for planning commissions. This is an
open-source reference provided by the Washington-based training company, Jurassic
Parliament.

Pursuant to VMC 20.220.010(G), “All actions of the Planning Commission shall be
determined by a majority vote in a meeting at which a quorum is present. A majority of
total appointed membership of the Planning Commission shall constitute a quorum.”
Additionally, specific public hearing procedures and voting requirements are included in
Article IV of the Commission’s Bylaws, excerpted here as follows:

Section 7. Public Hearing Procedure:
   a) Chairperson introduces the application, reads a summary of the application and
       hearing purpose into the record and asks staff to orally present the Staff Report.
       The Long Range Planning Manager or designee presents the Staff Report and
       adds any related or background information. Commissioners are permitted to
       request to be recognized by the Chair in order to ask any relevant questions
       about the application to the Chairperson or staff. A public hearing is then opened.

   b) The Applicant or [their] representative shall be given an opportunity to speak in
      favor of the application. Information submitted should be factual, relevant and
      not merely duplication of the previous staff presentation. A reasonable time shall
      be allowed the applicant; others may be limited to short supporting remarks.
      Each person speaking shall give name, address and nature of interest in the
      matter, and testimony shall be directed to the Planning Commission.

   c) Opponents in the audience shall then be given an opportunity to speak against
      the application. Information submitted should be factual, relevant and not merely
      a duplication of the previous presentation(s). A reasonable time shall be allowed
      for testimony; however, time may be limited. Each person speaking shall give
      name, address and nature of interest in the matter, and testimony shall be
      directed to the Planning Commission.




           PC Public Hearing Voting & Parliamentary Procedures Overview – Page 2
   d) Other interested parties shall be allowed to comment briefly or make inquiries.
      All questions shall be directed to the Chairperson, who may redirect as
      appropriate.

   e) At a quasi-judicial hearing, a brief rebuttal from proponents and opponents may
      then be heard separately and consecutively at the discretion of the Chairperson.
      The Chairperson may limit the time allocated to each side.

   f) Public hearing is then closed. Commissioners voice other significant
      considerations and pose any relevant questions through the Chairperson. The
      Chairperson may question proper parties for answers.

   g) The Chairperson receives a motion for disposition and voting from the
      Commission. Discussion and amendment (if necessary) of the motion may then
      occur. When a vote is taken, each Commissioner may provide a brief reason
      related to the approval criteria, for [their[ vote.

Section 8. Quorum: For the transaction of business and taking of official action, a
quorum shall consist of a majority of the seated members of the Planning Commission,
not including vacancies.

Section 9. Motions and Voting: Motions may be restated by the Chairperson before a
vote is taken. The name of the members making and seconding a motion shall be
recorded in the meeting minutes.
Any action taken by a majority of those present, when those present constitute a
quorum, at any regular, recessed, or special meetings of the Planning Commission shall
be deemed the official action of the Commission. Voting on amendments to the
Comprehensive Plan, Development Code, and maps; all matters requiring a public
hearing before the Planning Commission; and all items referred to the Commission by
the City Council shall be by roll call vote, and the vote of each member shall be
recorded in the meeting minutes.

Section 10. Parliamentary Procedure: Parliamentary procedure in Planning Commission
meetings shall be generally in accordance with Robert’s Rules of Order, Revised, unless
it is specifically provided otherwise in these Bylaws, in other Planning Commission
resolutions, or in City Ordinances.




          PC Public Hearing Voting & Parliamentary Procedures Overview – Page 3
                        APPENDIX A
        PUBLIC HEARING PREAMBLE (READ BY PC CHAIR)




PC Public Hearing Voting & Parliamentary Procedures Overview – Page 4
                      APPENDIX B
     PC HANDBOOK – PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURES GUIDE




PC Public Hearing Voting & Parliamentary Procedures Overview – Page 5
PC Public Hearing Voting & Parliamentary Procedures Overview – Page 6
                             APPENDIX C
JURASSIC PARLIAMENT: ESSENTIAL GUIDELINES FOR PLANNING COMMISSIONS




     PC Public Hearing Voting & Parliamentary Procedures Overview – Page 7
PC Public Hearing Voting & Parliamentary Procedures Overview – Page 8
