                                                          MEMORANDUM

DATE:         September 8, 2026

TO:           Chair Adigweme and Planning Commission members

FROM:         Bryan Snodgrass, Principal Planner, Community Development Department

RE:           Proportional Impact Fees

CC:           Rebecca Kennedy, Deputy Director, Community Development Department


This memorandum is provided to update the Planning Commission on new Growth
Management Act (GMA) requirements to adopt proportional impact fees for housing. The issue
was discussed briefly before the Commission on September 23, 2025.

As noted in recent Commission discussions on other aspects of impact fees, these are an
important funding source for new park, school and transportation capital facilities. They
are limited by state law to the portion of the cost of new capital projects required to
serve new development and cannot be used to fund capital costs needed to serve prior
development or non-capital costs of any kind. Impact fees are typically established for 6
-year periods but can be updated more frequently. Current Vancouver park impact fees
(PIF) range from $6,130 to $4,480 per single and multi-family unit, respectively, across
three park districts citywide. School impact fees (SIF) are $2,786 and $2,486 per single
and multi-family units, respectively, in the Vancouver School District, and in the process
of changing to zero in the Evergreen School District. Traffic impact fees (TIF) range from
$247 to $439 per vehicle trip across three citywide TIF districts.

There are new statutory requirements that residential impact fees be
based on the proportional impact of new housing units based on square footage,
number of bedrooms, or trips produced, in order for smaller housing units to pay a lower
fee. City staff is seeking to calibrate impact fees based on square footage and to utilize a
small number of unit square footage ranges, rather than a per square foot fee across all
housing unit sizes. For example, this could involve establishing a single impact fee for
housing units smaller than 1,500 square feet, another fee for units between 1,500 and
2,500 square feet, and another for units above 2,500 square feet.


 P.O. Box 1995 | Vancouver, WA 98668-1995 | 360-487-8000 | TTY: 711 | cityofvancouver.us
This work is complicated by both practical and technical concerns. On the practical side,
the change to proportional impact fees should be revenue neutral, so that the reduction
of fees collected from smaller housing units is offset by an increase in revenue collected
from larger units, resulting in no loss of overall funding for capital facilities. Ideally for
administrative ease, the size brackets (0-1,500/1,500-2,500/2500+ sf in the example
given here) should be similar across the park, school and traffic impact fee types,
although this may not be possible in full. In addition, some differentiation may be
needed among housing types. For example, accessory dwelling units (ADUs) are
prohibited by the new statute from being charged more than 50% of fee charged to the
main housing unit.

On the technical side, the proportional impact fee must be supported by data showing
that the fee reflects the share of new capital facilities project needs created by a new
housing unit. Two potential data sources from the US Census are being considered - the
American Community Survey (ACS) and the American Housing Survey (AHS) - with the
later likely most appropriate because it has square footage information.

City staff is working with consulting firm ECOnorthwest to complete this work, starting
first with parks and school impact fees. Staff have also been in contact with the school
districts and their technical consultant. Transportation impact fees will be the final
portion and maybe somewhat simpler because the statute allows proportional fees to
be calibrated by trip generation, which is already incorporated into City modelling and
fees.

A follow up Planning Commission workshop with specific recommendations is
anticipated on October 13. Hearings are likely at the end of the year.
