                                                                        Members
Planning Commission Meeting Agenda                                       Patrick Adigweme
                                                                                Chair
September 8, 2026
4:30 PM                                                                     Zach Pyle
                                                                            Vice Chair
City Hall Council Chambers
415 W. 6th Street                                                         Kate Castenson
Vancouver, WA
Join Teams Meeting                                                          Nena Cavel
Dial: +1 347-941-5324
Meeting ID: 257 335 320 116                                                Sandra Beck


                                                                             John Jay
1. Call to Order and Roll Call
                                                                          Alyssa Wheeler
2. Approval of Minutes

      Adoption of Minutes – July 14, 2026

3. Workshop

      Refresher on Parliamentary Procedures | Becky Rude,
      Deputy City Attorney, City Attorney’s Office

4. Workshop

      Overview of Public Meeting Practices for ADA
      Compliance and Accessibility for People with
      Disabilities | Lori Severino, Long Range Planning
      Manager

5. Workshop

      Proportional Impact Fees | Bryan Snodgrass, Principal
      Planner, Community Development Department
                                                                 Community Development Department
6. Break 6:00 – 6:30 pm                                                  415 W. 6th Street
                                                                      Vancouver, WA 98668
7. Community Forum                                                          360-487-7800
   To provide public testimony, please see instructions below.               Relay: 711
                                                                         cityofvancouver.us

8. Public Hearings

      Updated Evergreen Public Schools Capital Facilities




                                                                                            Page 1 of 62
        Plan | Bryan Snodgrass, Principal Planner, Community
        Development Department

9. Public Hearing

        Title 20 Update — Affordability Requirements for HB
        1491 Compliance | Bryan Snodgrass, Principal Planner,
        Community Development Department

10. Staff and Commissioners Communications

Adjournment

Community Forum Instructions
The public is invited to speak regarding any issue. Members of the public testifying are asked to limit testimony to
three minutes. There are three ways to provide comments:

    1. Writing: Public comments can be submitted in writing (name, address, contact information and comments)
       via email to PlanningCommission@cityofvancouver.us by noon on the day of the meeting.
    2. Remotely: Complete the online form before noon the day of the meeting and join via phone or Teams
       (details on each agenda). Staff will call on you to speak when it’s your turn.
    3. In Person: Complete the online form before noon the day of the meeting or a speaker request form in person
       prior to the start of the Community Forum portion of the meeting.



City Hall is served by C-TRAN. Route information and schedules are available online at www.c-tran.com. You also
may reach C-TRAN at (360) 695-0123 for more information on times, fares, and routes.

Anyone needing language interpretation services or accommodations with a disability at a Vancouver City Council
meeting may contact the City Manager's staff at (360) 487-8600 (RELAY: 711). Assistive listening devices and live
Closed Captioning are available for the deaf, hard of hearing and general public use. Please notify a staff person if
you wish to use one of the devices. Every attempt at reasonable accommodation will be made. To request this
agenda in another format, please also contact the phone numbers listed above.




                             To request accommodation or other formats, please contact:
       Community Development Department | 360-487-7813 | Relay: 711 | PlanningCommission@cityofvancouver.us




                                                                                                              Page 2 of 62
                                                       Planning Commission


Meeting Minutes
Tuesday, July 14, 2026                                                                      Members
4:30 p.m.
City Hall Council Chambers                                                                  Patrick Adigweme
415 W. 6th Street | Vancouver, WA                                                                  Chair

                                                                                                Zach Pyle
The meeting was called to order at 5:52 pm                                                      Vice Chair
Commission Members Present: Patrick Adigweme, Zach Pyle, Sandra Beck, Nena
                                                                                               Sandra Beck
Cavel, John Jay, Alyssa Wheeler
                                                                                              Kate Castenson
Commission Member Absent: Kate Castenson
Motion by Vice Chair Pyle, seconded by Commissioner Cavel to excuse the absence of              Nena Cavel
Commissioner Castenson. Motion carried unanimously.
                                                                                                 John Jay
Staff Present: Rebecca Kennedy, Deputy Community Development Director and
Planning Commission staff liaison; Becky Rude, Deputy City Attorney and Planning              Alyssa Wheeler
Commission staff attorney; Maricsa Acosta, Support Staff, Community Development
Department
Approval of the Minutes: Motion by Commissioner Pyle, seconded by Commissioner
Jay to approve the April 28, 2026, meeting minutes. Motion carried unanimously.

Workshop: Development Review Process Training, Pt. 2
Presenter: Rebecca Kennedy, Deputy Community Development Director

Staff provided an overview of an earlier site tour of the 12th & Main mixed use
development project that occurred prior to the start of the meeting. This is intended as
a follow-up to an earlier training on the development review process that the Planning
Commission received in January, and focused on how past Planning Commission
decisions impact individual projects and how the development review process ensures
projects meet zoning code and infrastructure requirements. The site tour provided
Commissioners an opportunity to see how a project moves through the site plan review           Community
                                                                                              Development
process.                                                                                       Department
                                                                                             415 W. 6th Street
Staff explained that the working dinner would focus on the Commission’s anticipated           P.O. Box 1995
work for the remainder of 2026 and into 2027, with time for questions and discussion.      Vancouver, WA 98668
                                                                                               360-487-7800
                                                                                           www.cityofvancouver.us
Staff also noted that the regular meeting would resume at 6:30 p.m., followed by an
orientation to the renovated Council Chambers in preparation for the Commission’s
return to Chambers in September.




                                                                                                   Page 3 of 62
Workshop: Dinner & Commission Discussion
Presenter: Rebecca Kennedy, Deputy Community Development Director

2026–2027 Planning Commission Workplan
Staff reviewed the Commission’s anticipated work for the remainder of 2026 and into 2027, noting that the
2027 workplan is partially dependent on the 2027–2028 biennial budget. The discussion highlighted
upcoming code and policy work, Comprehensive Plan implementation efforts, and several longer-term
planning initiatives.
Key Points:
   •   2026 work is expected to include the Evergreen Public Schools Capital Facilities Plan and school
       impact fees, proportional impact fees, an initial round of code cleanup amendments, and code
       changes required for compliance with HB 1491 related to transit-oriented development (TOD).
   •   2027 work is anticipated to include the annual review program, middle housing and homeownership
       strategies, the City Strategic Plan update, marijuana standards, potential pollinator-supportive code
       changes, Fruit Valley for All, subarea planning, and implementation of the Citywide Equitable
       Development Strategy.
   •   Additional informational updates are anticipated regarding the Housing Action Plan and
       development pipeline, as well as ongoing work to develop a community childcare strategy.
   •   Staff clarified that Fruit Valley for All is similar in scope to subarea planning but is more equity-
       focused, emphasizing community co-creation, place-based investment, and the needs and aspirations
       of equity-priority areas.

Commissioner Discussion & Staff Responses
Chair Adigweme
Q: When will the anticipated 2027 workplan be finalized? Staff explained that the workplan is expected
to be more certain by December, following adoption of the 2027–2028 biennial budget, but that workplans
are always a snapshot in time and adjust and iterate as conditions evolve.

Vice Chair Pyle
Q: Is the anticipated 2027 workplan presented in priority order, and how does the Middle Housing
Production and Homeownership Strategy address homeownership? Staff clarified that the workplan
items are not prioritized and explained that the strategy is intended to support both overall middle housing
production and increased homeownership opportunities through potential regulatory and programmatic
approaches.
Vice Chair Pyle commented that future requests for lower-density zoning could intersect with the middle
housing and homeownership strategy and suggested that those requests could help inform the strategy as it
develops. Staff explained that the strategy is expected to develop incrementally, with staff evaluating
opportunities under existing regulations and identifying potential code changes as the new development
code is implemented.




                                                                                                               2



                                                                                                    Page 4 of 62
Chair Adigweme
Q: How much of the anticipated workplan is expected to come before the Commission for
informational purposes vs requiring a formal recommendation? Staff explained that the exact number
will depend on how individual initiatives develop but estimated that approximately six or seven of the ten
items may ultimately require a formal recommendation. The City Strategic Plan, Equitable Development
Strategy implementation updates, and childcare strategy are generally expected to come before the
Commission for information and awareness rather than formal action.
Q: Is this amount of work typical for a non-Comprehensive Plan year? Staff confirmed that it is. Staff
noted that some efforts, such as subarea planning, may span several years but ultimately result in formal
Commission action.


Commission Process and Working Together
Staff provided brief reminders regarding Commission responsibilities, including the Open Public Meetings
Act, appearance of fairness, Public Records Act, and Code of Ethics, and reviewed expectations for
effective collaboration between the Commission and staff.
Staff then invited Commissioners to reflect on the recently completed Comprehensive Plan and code update
process, including what worked well, opportunities for improvement, and practices that could be carried
forward. Commissioners were also asked to consider how the Commission works together, including
consideration of differing viewpoints, ensuring the community feels heard, and applying appropriate
decision-making criteria.


Commissioner’s Comments & Questions
Commissioner Cavel - highlighted the joint sessions with City Council as a particularly valuable part of the
Comprehensive Plan process. She appreciated the opportunity for direct interaction with Councilmembers
and found the joint exercises and discussions constructive. She encouraged incorporating similar joint
sessions into future planning efforts.
Vice Chair Pyle - reflected on how the Commission can better ensure the community feels heard,
particularly when taking final action after a lengthy workshop process. He noted that Commissioners may
have developed a strong understanding of an issue through multiple workshops, while members of the
public may be engaging with the issue for the first time later in the process.
He suggested allowing more discussion between a motion and the final vote so Commissioners can
articulate how they weighed different perspectives, respond to significant public concerns, and explain the
reasoning behind their decisions. He emphasized that this would not require addressing every individual
comment but could help demonstrate that community input was heard and considered.
Staff supported the suggestion and noted that Commission discussion and voting practices could be
incorporated into future training.

Commissioner Beck - agreed with Vice Chair Pyle’s comments regarding the value of more discussion
when considering public input and taking final action. She noted that additional deliberation would help
Commissioners better understand one another’s perspectives, consider public viewpoints, and communicate
their own reasoning constructively.
She expressed overall support for the Comprehensive Plan and felt the process went well but remained
cautious about preserving meaningful opportunities for public participation as more development is
                                                                                                              3



                                                                                                    Page 5 of 62
reviewed administratively. Staff clarified that the Planning Commission’s existing role in development
review has not changed and acknowledged the broader concern about maintaining opportunities for
community input.
Commissioner Beck further emphasized the importance of making Comprehensive Plan implementation
visible and accessible to the community, noting that some community members were unaware of the
Comprehensive Plan process despite the extensive work leading up to adoption. She expressed concern
about avoiding a similar experience during implementation.

Chair Adigweme - suggested providing the Commission with future updates on how the new development
review processes are working, even when no formal Commission action is required. Staff agreed and noted
that, after allowing time for implementation of the new code, staff could provide a broader update on what
they are seeing and hearing.

Commissioner Wheeler - agreed with Vice Chair Pyle regarding the importance of communicating the
Commission’s reasoning. She noted that Commissioners may have considered similar public concerns over
multiple meetings, but the public may not know how those concerns factored into their thinking. She
supported more clearly articulating that reasoning during Commission deliberations.

Chair Adigweme - agreed, noting that the Commission’s sustained focus on the Comprehensive Plan
resulted in less variation in public comments over time, which may have contributed to this dynamic.

Commissioner Jay - expressed appreciation for staff’s efforts to follow up with community members and
provide additional information following public comments. He agreed that, particularly for significant
decisions, Commissioners could more clearly explain their reasoning before voting.
He also reflected positively on how the Commission works together, noting that members listen to and
build on one another’s perspectives even when they disagree. He described the Commission as collaborative
and expressed appreciation for staff support.
Staff agreed that more intentional deliberation before voting would be valuable and suggested returning to a
practice of discussing how Commissioners weighed public comments, applicable criteria, and other
information before taking action.

Chair Adigweme and Vice Chair Pyle - asked for clarification on how deliberation should occur before
and after a motion without forecasting individual votes. Staff explained that while there are procedural
distinctions, the focus should remain on the considerations informing a decision and meaningful
deliberation rather than stating how one intends to vote or conducting an informal straw vote.

Community Forum Testimony
No community members signed up to speak. Community Forum was closed.

Workshop: Evergreen Public Schools Capital Facilities Plan
Presenter: Bryan Snodgrass, Principal Planner, Community Development Department

Staff introduced the Evergreen Public Schools 2026–2032 Capital Facilities Plan (CFP) and related school
impact fees. The workshop was intended to provide background and prepare the Commission for a public
hearing scheduled for September 8.

                                                                                                           4



                                                                                                    Page 6 of 62
Key Points:
   • Evergreen Public Schools adopted an updated CFP recommending a school impact fee of $0,
      reflecting declining enrollment and the lack of eligible facility needs during the six-year planning
      period.
   • Staff noted that the CFP was inadvertently omitted during the recent Comprehensive Plan and code
      update process and will return to the Commission for a recommendation to adopt the Evergreen
      CFP by reference into the citywide Comprehensive Plan.
   • Staff are determining whether an associated code amendment is necessary to establish the $0 impact
      fee.
   • The Evergreen CFP update is separate from the broader proportional impact fee work, which staff
      also anticipates bringing to the Commission for a workshop in September.

Commissioner Discussion & Staff Responses
Commissioners Beck, Wheeler, and Jay indicated they had no questions.
Commissioner Cavel
Q: What types of expenses can school impact fees typically be used to fund, and why do Evergreen
Public Schools not anticipate eligible expenses during the six-year planning period? Staff explained
that impact fees are restricted to new capital facilities needed because of new development and cannot be
used for operating expenses, or to address capital facilities needed to serve previous growth. While the
District anticipates potentially having eligible needs in the future, none were identified within the current
six-year planning period.

Vice Chair Pyle
Q: Do school bonds and impact fees generally fund the same types of capital facilities? Staff
explained that both can support capital needs, but impact fees are more restricted and may only fund
facilities needed to serve new growth. Bonds can fund a broader range of capital needs, including
improvements to existing or aging facilities. Staff noted that a school district representative is expected to
attend the September hearing and could provide additional information.
Vice Chair Pyle noted the contrast between the City’s projected housing growth and the District’s declining
enrollment and expressed interest in understanding that trend. Staff noted that several demographic factors
may contribute to declining enrollment, including housing affordability, delayed household formation, and
people having children later.

Commissioner Beck
Q: What happens if the District identifies a need for a new facility before the end of the six-year
planning period? Staff explained that the School Board could amend its Capital Facilities Plan and return
to the City to update the school impact fee through a similar review process.
Q: Would the District need to begin collecting impact fees again before proceeding with a new
facility? Staff clarified that the District may still have previously collected impact fee funds available for
eligible projects. The proposed $0 fee would stop collection of new impact fees but would not prevent the
                                                                                                                 5



                                                                                                        Page 7 of 62
District from using previously collected funds. Staff added that the District is aware of the City’s projected
housing growth but is evaluating facility needs that can be justified within the current six-year planning
period.
Chair Adigweme - requested clarification of the acronyms used during the presentation. Staff clarified that
EPS refers to Evergreen Public Schools, CFP to Capital Facilities Plan, SIF to School Impact Fee, TIF to
Traffic Impact Fee, and PIF to Park Impact Fee.

Staff & Commissioner Communications
Orientation to Renovated Council Chambers – Maricsa Acosta, Support Specialist
Staff provided an overview of the renovated Council Chambers and the new audiovisual system in
preparation for the Planning Commission’s return to Chambers in September.
Key Points:
   • Commissioner stations include new touchscreens and microphones, with access to meeting
      information and, eventually, meeting documents and agendas through the system.
   • Audience and presenter displays, seating, furniture, and lighting have also been updated.
   • Commissioners will continue to use their iPads while transitioning to the new system.
   • Commissioners will be asked to arrive approximately 15 minutes early for the September meeting
      for a brief orientation and training on the new equipment.
   • Commissioners were invited to tour the renovated Chambers following adjournment.

Commissioner updates
Commissioner Jay - thanked Vice Chair Pyle for organizing and leading the 12th & Main site tour, noting
that it was informative and provided an opportunity to learn more about the development process.
Commissioner Beck - noted that she would be absent from the September 8 meeting.
Chair Adigweme - requested an update on upcoming accessibility requirements and related training for the
Commission. Staff explained that the federal compliance deadline had been extended by one year but
emphasized that accessibility practices remain the best practice. Staff indicated that accessibility guidance
and training would be added to the September agenda.
Adjournment
With no further business, the July 14, 2026, meeting of the Vancouver Planning Commission was adjourned
at 7:06 pm.


______________________________________
Patrick Adigweme, Chair                 Date




                                                                                                                 6



                                                                                                       Page 8 of 62
                                                          STAFF REPORT

DATE:          September 8, 2026

TO:            Chair Adigweme and Planning Commission members

FROM:          Bryan Snodgrass, Community Development Department Principal Planner

RE:            Adoption of Evergreen Public Schools Capital Facilities Plan 2026-32 by
               reference into the Vancouver Comprehensive Plan

CC:            Lori Severino, Community Development Long Range Planning Manager



Introduction

This staff report contains analysis and recommendations for the September 8 Planning
Commission public hearing to consider adoption of the Evergreen Public Schools Capital
Facilities Plan 2026-32 by reference into the City of Vancouver Comprehensive Plan, along with
associated impact fee recommendations. The Commission held a public workshop on July 14,
2026. Materials are available here. The public hearing has been duly advertised in The
Columbian newspaper, and a Determination of Non-Significance (DNS) was published and
associated checklist circulated on August 27 pursuant to the State Environmental Policy Act
(SEPA).

The Commission will forward its recommendation to the Vancouver City Council for public
hearing review on a date yet to be established in fall 2026. The Growth Management Act (GMA)
restricts local Comprehensive Plan amendments to once per year, but exceptions are provided
in RCW 36.70A.130, including adoption of capital facilities amendments concurrent with a
budget action, which this proposal qualifies under.


Background

Six-year capital facilities plans adopted first by the school districts operating within Vancouver
city limits have been adopted by reference into the City of Vancouver Comprehensive Plan


 P.O. Box 1995 | Vancouver, WA 98668-1995 | 360-487-8000 | TTY: 711 | cityofvancouver.us

                                                                                           Page 9 of 62
since establishment of the Growth Management Act in 1991. Other local jurisdictions follow a
similar practice. Adoption of the school district capital facilities plans allows local jurisdictions
to ensure capital facilities are sufficient to serve new residential growth enabled by land use
plans.

Adoption of the school district capital facilities plans is also necessary for collection of school
impact fees (SIFs), which the City of Vancouver collects in accordance with Chapter 82.02 RCW
to fund capital projects required to serve new development. Impact fees are also collected for
transportation and parks. The fees are paid at the time of building permit issuance. In the case
of school impact fees, the City collects impact fees on behalf of the appropriate school district
and then transfers them to the district to fund their capital facilities. Impact fees cannot be
spent on salaries or non-capital needs, or on capital facility needs that are based on earlier
development rather than new growth.

The Evergreen Public Schools (EPS) updated 2026-2032 Capital Facilities Plan (CFP),
Attachment 1 to this report, was adopted by the Evergreen School Board on June 10, 2025. It
concluded that there will be adequate capital facilities at all grade levels for this particular six-
year planning period and that student enrollment is expected to decline. See Page 266 of the
Vancouver Comprehensive Plan for further background. The adopted CFP, which is based on
the district's own data and projections, further states that the District is "ineligible" to collect
impact fees given the available capacity of existing facilities during the six-year timeframe
(January 1, 2026 through December 31, 2032), unless otherwise subsequently amended by ESD.
An August 26 Columbian article described the District’s upcoming process for consolidating
existing facilities.

Adoption of the EPS Capital Facilities Plan by reference formalizes the District’s finding and
request not to collect impact fees from 2026 to 2032. To suspend earlier 2026 collection of
school impact fees in the area served by EPS, the Vancouver City Council passed an interim
control ordinance and moratorium on EPS impact fee collection on June 8, 2026 (and affirmed
that ordinance through a public hearing conducted on August 3, 2026.

The Vancouver Municipal Code (VMC) provisions covering park, school, and
transportation impact fees are all anticipated to be amended in 2026 or 2027 to respond
to recent state requirements to adopt proportional residential impact fees so smaller
housing units pay less, and to respond to structural funding issues. These updates are not
expected to change the recommended EPS impact fee, which as noted has been
requested by the EPS to be zeroed out during the next six years because such fees would
not be legally authorized given the lack of eligible projects. EPS can update its CFP more
frequently than the every 6-year requirement if their projections change.

Summary of Proposal

Staff recommends the Vancouver Comprehensive Plan be amended as follows to reflect
adoption by reference of the Evergreen Public Schools Capital Facilities Plan 2026-2032
and its school impact fee recommendations:




                                                                                            Page 10 of 62
   1. Appendix A, Related Plan and Policies, is amended to include a listing “Evergreen
      Public Schools Capital Facilities Plan 2026-2032 (*adopted by reference)”

   2. Comprehensive Plan main document, page 283, Table 36 is amended to read

       Table 36. School District Impact Fees
                                  Single Family             Multi-Family
       Battle Ground              $10,760                   $3,845
       Camas                      $6,650                    $6,650
       Evergreen                  $6,432 $0                 $3,753 $0
       Vancouver                  $2,876                    $2,486


Review Criteria and Findings

VMC 20.285.070 provides the following approval criteria for Comprehensive Plan or
zoning code text amendments:
      1. The proposal is consistent with applicable policies of the Vancouver Strategic
      Plan and Comprehensive Plan; and
      2. The proposal is necessary to further the public interest based on present needs
      and conditions.

Staff finds that the proposal complies with the applicable criteria. It is consistent with
Comprehensive Plan goals and policies regarding fiscal responsibility and regional
coordination, particularly Goal PFS-2, Government Services and Financing, Policy #128,
Schools, and Policy #122, Regional Planning. The proposal is necessary to further the
public interest at this time, as the proposal formalizes the request of a partner public
service agency and ensures fees will not be collected where they are inconsistent with
state law.


Recommended Action

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a recommendation to the City
Council to adopt proposed changes to the Comprehensive Plan to adopt the Evergreen
Public Schools Capital Facilities Plan 2026-2032 by reference into the City
Comprehensive Plan, along with associated school impact fee recommendations.


Bryan Snodgrass, Community Development Department Principal Planner,
bryan.snodgrass@cityofvancouver.us


Attachment(s)

          A. Evergreen Public Schools Capital Facilities Plan 2026-2032




                                                                                             Page 11 of 62
                                                                                         LeAnne M. Bremer, P.C.
                                                                                         Partner
                                                                                         leanne.bremer@millernash.com
                                                                                         360.619.7002 (direct)

         May 13, 2026

         VIA EMAIL

         Amy Wooten
         Clark County Community Planning
         PO Box 9810
         Vancouver, WA 98666-9810
         amy.wooten@clark.wa.gov

         Bryan Snodgrass
         City of Vancouver Community Development
         415 W. 6th Street
         Vancouver, WA 98660
         bryan.snodgrass@cityofvancouver.us

         Subject:          Evergreen School District 2026-2032 Capital Facilities Plan

         Dear Amy and Bryan:

         I am sending to you the final 2026-2032 Capital Facilities Plan for the Evergreen School District
         for inclusion in the County’s and City updated comprehensive plans. Please note that this
         version has minor, non-substantive corrections to what I sent to each jurisdiction last year, and
         I ask that the enclosed be adopted. Please further note that upon adoption, the District will not
         be entitled to collect school impact fees.

         Lastly, both the County and City have asked the District to coordinate its planning efforts with
         the 20-year planning efforts the jurisdictions are undertaking in their comprehensive plan
         update process. In response, the District recognizes that both the City and County are planning
         for significant growth through the year 2045 largely focused in existing urban growth areas.
         According to the City’s “Our Vancouver,” developed during its comprehensive planning process
         under the Growth Management Act, the City is planning for at least 38,000 additional housing
         units (about 44% more than the City has now) and adding more than 40,000 jobs over the next
         20 years to improve the community’s livability and affordability. In response to recent “middle
         housing” legislation and the City’s own policy directives, the City and Clark County are planning
         on encouraging the creation of a significant number of additional housing units in the
         Vancouver Urban Growth Area.



500 Broadway Street, Suite 400 | Vancouver, WA 98660                                              4898-6402-1162.1


                                                                                                               Page 12 of 62
Amy Wooten
Bryan Snodgrass
May 13, 2026
Page 2



For the Evergreen School District, this projected growth, as it materializes, will likely impact
existing schools and cause the need for additional facilities to accommodate this growth during
the 20-year planning horizon. Over the next six years, the District expects continued enrollment
decline due to low birth rates and other demographic factors. However, based on the City’s and
County’s planning processes that could result in significantly more housing, student enrollment
is likely to gradually increase as new families move into new and existing residential areas.
Because of the uncertainty about when this growth will occur and where, and because school
enrollment is based on factors other than growth in the number of housing units, the District
cannot precisely identify which schools will need to be expanded, or where new facilities are
needed beyond its 6-year capital facilities planning horizon.

The Evergreen School District is, however, committed to proactively updating facilities and
increasing capacity where and when needed. This includes ongoing and continuous evaluation
of existing building capacities, modernization of aging infrastructure, and, at some point,
identification of opportunities for targeted expansion at existing school sites or new facilities.
As the District’s capital facilities plan can be updated no more frequently than once a year, the
District will continue to monitor housing developments and population shifts as they impact
enrollment and will update their plans accordingly.

Very truly yours,



LeAnne M. Bremer, P.C.

Enclosure

cc:    Nicole Daltoso
       Oliver Orjiako
       Jenna Kay




                                                                                     4898-6402-1162.1


                                                                                                  Page 13 of 62
EVERGREEN PUBLIC SCHOOLS
  CAPITAL FACILITIES PLAN
                    2026-2032




            BOARD OF DIRECTORS
  Jacqueline Weatherspoon, Board President
    Ginny Gronwoldt, Board Vice President
            Rob Perkins, Director
          Julie Bocanegra, Director
            Gary Wilson, Director




                SUPERINTENDENT
                Dr. Christine Moloney

 SENIOR DIRECTOR OF CAPITAL FACILITIES
             Nicole Daltoso



Adopted by the Evergreen School District Board of Directors
                      June 10, 2025


                                                              4902-4566-6367.1


                                                                           Page 14 of 62
                                             SECTION                   Page

                  I.    EXECUTIVE SUMMARY                                 3

                  II.   DISTRICT EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS AND                 5
                        STANDARDS OF SERVICE

                 III.   CAPITAL FACILITIES INVENTORY                      8

                 IV.    STUDENT ENROLLMENT PROJECTIONS                   10

                 V.     CAPITAL FACILITIES NEEDS                         12

                 VI.    CAPITAL FACILITIES FINANCE PLAN                  13

                VII.    SCHOOL IMPACT FEES                               14




                         Appendix A – Capital Facilities Inventory

                         Appendix B – Population and Enrollment Data




Evergreen Public Schools Capital Facilities Plan 2026-2032                           2
                                                                       4902-4566-6367.1


                                                                                    Page 15 of 62
I. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

The Evergreen Public Schools Capital Facilities Plan (CFP) is a six-year plan prepared by
district staff as the organization’s capital facility planning document, in part, to support the use of
school impact fees as provided for under the Washington State Growth Management Act (the
“GMA”). School districts adopt capital facilities plans to satisfy the requirements of the GMA and
to provide Clark County (the “County), the City of Vancouver, and the City of Camas (the
“Cities”) with a schedule and financing program for the district’s capital improvement needs over
the next six years (2026-2032) to ensure that adequate school facilities are available to serve
new growth and development.
In accordance with the Growth Management Act and the County and City Impact Fee
Ordinances, this CFP contains the following required elements:
        •   A description of space requirements for educational programs (Section II)
        •   An inventory of existing capital facilities owned by the District (Section III)
        •   Future enrollment projections for each grade span (Section IV)
        •   A forecast of proposed capacities of expanded or new capital facilities over the next
            six years based on the inventory of existing facilities and the standard of service
            (Section V)
        •   A six-year plan for financing capital facilities within projected funding capacities,
            which identifies sources of public funds for such purposes. The financing plan
            separates projects and portions of projects which add capacity from those which do
            not, since the latter are generally not appropriate for impact fee funding (Section VI)
        •   A calculation of impact fees based on the formula in the County and City impact fee
            ordinances and supporting data substantiating such fees (Section VII)


In developing this CFP, the District used the following guidelines:
        •   The District will use information from recognized sources, such as professional
            demographers and planners, county and city adopted land use plans and county GIS
            data.
        •   The District will use data it generates from reasonable methodologies.
        •   The CFP and methodology to calculate the impact fees will comply with the GMA
            and county and city codes.
        •   The six-year facility needs are based on an enrollment forecast that takes local
            development trends into account.
        •   The District has future plans to replace permanent/bricks and mortar facilities for its
            students and will develop a CFP to accomplish that objective. While the District does
            not anticipate a further need for additional students to be housed in portables, the
            District will do so as necessary. Housing students in portables, temporarily, is
            necessary to qualify for state funds that are needed to build new schools.




Evergreen Public Schools Capital Facilities Plan 2026-2032                                            3
                                                                                        4902-4566-6367.1


                                                                                                     Page 16 of 62
The Evergreen School District is comprised of 54 square miles. It serves a significant portion of
the Vancouver Urban Growth Area and smaller areas in the Camas Urban Growth Area and
rural Clark County.
The District serves residents from the cities of Vancouver and Camas and from unincorporated
Clark County. The District is bordered by Vancouver School District to the west, Camas School
District to the east and Battle Ground and Hockinson School Districts to the north. The
Columbia River and state line border the District to the south.
The District serves a population of 23,366 students (October 2024 enrollment). For purposes of
facility planning, the CFP considers grades K-5 as an elementary school, grades 6-8 as a
middle school, and grades 9-12 as a high school.
In addition, Cascadia Technical Academy (formerly known as the Clark County Skills Center) is
located in and operated by Evergreen Public Schools serving students half days from all Clark
County school districts. The District serves home schooled students in grades K-8 through a
supplemental program operated by Home Choice Academy and pre-school special needs
students at four elementary schools. The District runs Transition to Kindergarten programs at
seven locations with an enrollment of 110 students.
In February 2018, voters approved a bond measure which funded the projects noted below. The
bond program is scheduled to close out the 2025-2026 school year.


    •   Replacement of five elementary schools (Burton, Ellsworth, Marrion, Image, and Sifton)
    •   Construction of one new elementary school with capacity for 550 students (Mill Plain)
    •   Replacement of Wy’east Middle School
    •   Replacement of Mountain View High School
    •   A permanent addition to Heritage High School
    •   A new District Office
    •   Replacement of alternative schools, including Legacy High School, Archway Academy
        (formerly known as 49th Street Academy), and Hollingsworth Academy (formerly known
        as the Transitions program).


Due to savings across all bond projects, the District was also able to replace Mill Plain
Elementary, the Transportation facility, and add music room additions at Evergreen High School
and Union High School. These projects concluded in 2025.




Evergreen Public Schools Capital Facilities Plan 2026-2032                                          4
                                                                                    4902-4566-6367.1


                                                                                                 Page 17 of 62
II. DISTRICT EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS AND STANDARDS OF SERVICE
The District's standard of service is based on program year, class size by grade span, number
of classrooms, types of facilities, and the District’s adopted educational program. Quality
education plays a vital role in growing a strong local economy. To provide quality education, the
District must have quality facilities to serve as the supporting space for developing the whole
child within a community to prepare them for a competitive world. The educational program
standards, which typically drive facility space needs include grade configuration, optimum facility
size, class size, educational program offerings, classroom utilization and scheduling
requirements.
In addition to student population, other factors such as collective bargaining agreements,
government mandates, state and federal funding requirements and community expectations
affect classroom space requirements. Programs, such as special education, bilingual education,
preschool and daycare programs, and other specialized programs, often supplement traditional
educational programs. These programs can have a significant impact on the available student
capacity of school facilities.
The District's current program and educational standards are summarized below. The program
and educational standards may vary during the six-year CFP planning horizon. Absent
significant changes in factors that are beyond the District's control, the District will provide the
following programs and standards of service in 2026 through 2032. If significant changes occur
that require new facilities or improvements, beyond what is identified in this CFP, the District will
prepare and submit an updated CFP.

    A. Elementary Educational Standards
        Elementary schools provide education in all core subject areas including reading, writing,
        math, social studies and science. All students receive instruction in P.E., music, art and
        have access to media programs. Full day kindergarten is provided at each elementary
        school. Transition to kindergarten is provided at Crestline, Endeavour, Harmony, Image,
        Mill Plain, Sifton, and Sunset. The District’s educational standards of service, which
        directly affect elementary school capacity, include:
            •   Class sizes for grades K-3 are targeted at 23 students per class.
            •   Class sizes for grades 4-5 are targeted at 25 students per class.
            •   Music instruction and physical education are provided in separate (pull-out)
                classrooms.
            •   All elementary schools have a library media resource center which includes
                additional space for a technology lab.
            •   Special education services are provided for some students in learning spaces
                that are separate from the general education classroom. Special education
                learning spaces can serve 1 to 15 students at any one time.

    B. Middle and High School Program Standards
        Middle schools provide instruction in the core disciplines of English, math, social studies,
        science, physical education, music and art. Students have elective offerings available
        including music, art, technology, and vocational technical courses.




Evergreen Public Schools Capital Facilities Plan 2026-2032                                          5
                                                                                      4902-4566-6367.1


                                                                                                   Page 18 of 62
        High schools provide course work including English, history, science, math, physical
        education, music and art. Additionally, elective offerings include vocational technical
        programs.
        The District educational standards of service, which directly affect middle school and
        high school capacity include:
            •   Class sizes for grades 6-8 are targeted at 27.33 students per class.
            •   Class sizes for grades 9-12 are targeted at 30 students per class.
            •   Special programs, such as music, art, physical education, drama, home and
                family education learning assistance, are provided in separate instructional
                space. The class size ranges from 20 to 70 students.
            •   The District provides science classroom space that supports advanced
                coursework at the secondary level that require water, sinks, gas, hoods, safety
                equipment, etc.
            •   It is not possible to achieve 100% utilization of all regular teaching stations
                throughout the day due to schedule conflicts, the need for specialized rooms for
                certain programs and the need for teachers to have work space during their
                planning period.

    C. District-wide Educational Programs
        In addition to elementary, middle, and high school program standards, the Evergreen
        School District's core services and program offerings include the following:
            •   Physical education space is provided to meet strengthened health standards.
                This can include covered play areas, field space, gyms and other multi-use
                spaces.
            •   Technology access is necessary and expectations are increasing. Technology
                (either within the classroom or in dedicated labs) takes extra space that is not
                calculated in current state square footage allowances, but is necessary for
                student learning. Technology support and infrastructure needs are also
                increasing, which further erodes the state square footage allowances.
            •   Art and music spaces are critical to the District's educational programs. As
                student population grows, additional support space for these essential programs
                is required.
            •   In an information driven environment, access to knowledge through appropriately
                sized library/media spaces is essential.
            •   Extra-curricular activities need space in order to be supported properly with
                growing student populations.

    D. District-wide Support and Special Services
        In addition to the above core educational programs, the following support services are
        essential to the District's educational program:
            •   Food service preparation, delivery and use space. Cafeteria, food preparation
                and delivery space must be maintained. Miscalculating the need for this core
                service can have significant impacts on the overall learning environment for
                students.

Evergreen Public Schools Capital Facilities Plan 2026-2032                                           6
                                                                                       4902-4566-6367.1


                                                                                                    Page 19 of 62
            •   Other support centers, including transportation, maintenance, warehouse and
                print shop facilities are critical to support the educational program and the
                business operation.
        The following special services are also necessary to meet the needs of special
        populations:
            •   Special Education services are provided at all schools within the District.
                Currently, most students receive special education services at their
                neighborhood schools. Special needs program standards change year to year as
                a result of various external or internal changes. External changes may include
                mandates or needs for special services, or use of technology. Internal changes
                may include modifications to the program year, class sizes, and grade span
                configurations. Changes in physical aspects of the school facilities also affect
                special educational service standards.
            •   Special populations require specific support, which often necessitates dedicated
                spaces. Federal and state programs, including Title 1 reading and math, highly
                capable, and bilingual are necessary, but come with limited funding that does not
                cover the cost of adding facilities to support the programs.
            •   Early Childhood programs, such as new or expanded preschool programs are a
                vital service and an essential educational component. They place additional
                demands on facilities.
            •   Supplementary services in core academic areas and multiple pathways that
                prepare students for a broader range of post-secondary learning opportunities
                require additional space.




Evergreen Public Schools Capital Facilities Plan 2026-2032                                       7
                                                                                   4902-4566-6367.1


                                                                                                Page 20 of 62
III. CAPITAL FACILITIES INVENTORY
The facilities inventory serves to establish a baseline for determining the facilities needed to
accommodate future demand at acceptable levels of service. This section provides an inventory
of capital facilities owned and operated by the District including schools, portables, undeveloped
land and support facilities. Portable classrooms are used on an interim basis to house students
until funding can be secured to construct permanent classrooms.
A complete listing of District facilities can be found in Appendix A.
    A. School Sites

         Facility Type               No. of           No. of Classrooms                   Capacity
                                    Schools      Permanent      Temporary         Permanent   Temporary


    Elementary Schools                22              589              109          13,942              2,580



    Middle Schools                    6               218              102          5,958               2,788



    High Schools                      6               350              20           10,500               600

       (1) Capacity is based on the space requirements for the District’s educational programs as outlined in
           Section II. Portable classrooms are excluded from capacity calculation but shown above for reference.
       (2) High schools include four comprehensive high schools and two alternative high schools. Other special
           programs that provide district wide support are included in Section B Services below.



    B. Services
    In addition to schools, the District owns and operates additional facilities which provide
    special programs and operational support functions to the schools.

          SUPPORT FACILITIES                                 LOCATION                             DESCRIPTION
                                           13413 NE LeRoy Haagen Memorial Drive
    Administrative Service Center                                                     Supports all facilities
                                           Vancouver, WA 98682
                                           3004 NE 124th Avenue
    Maintenance Facility                                                              Supports all facilities
                                           Vancouver, WA 98682
                                           2205 NE 139th Avenue
    McKenzie Stadium                                                                  Supports extracurricular
                                           Vancouver, WA 98682
                                           14015 NE 28th Street
    Transportation                                                                    Supports student transportation
                                           Vancouver, WA 98682
    Warehouse – Central Receiving &        2205 NE 138th Avenue
                                                                                      Supports all facilities
    Distribution                           Vancouver, WA 98684
                                           14619-B 49th Street                        Leased for early childhood
    49th Street Academy
                                           Vancouver, WA 98682                        education
                                           2219 NE 128th Avenue                       Leased for early childhood
    Old Legacy
                                           Vancouver, WA 98684                        education
                                           12200 NE 28th Street                       Consortium program with pull-out
    Cascadia Technical Academy
                                           Vancouver, WA 98682                        enrollment



Evergreen Public Schools Capital Facilities Plan 2026-2032                                                              8
                                                                                                        4902-4566-6367.1


                                                                                                                        Page 21 of 62
    C. Land Inventory
    The District owns undeveloped sites in addition to the sites with built facilities.
    The undeveloped sites listed below are for future growth, including:
            •   6.05 acres south of NE 9th Street and east of NE 136th Avenue, Vancouver WA
                98682 for a future school or support service.
            •   1.54 acres located at the NE corner of Marrion Elementary School
            •   3.27 acres located at the NE corner of Mountain View High School
            •   20 acres located at SE 29th Street and SE 176th Avenue, known as the
                Vancouver Innovation Center for a future middle school.




Evergreen Public Schools Capital Facilities Plan 2026-2032                                              9
                                                                                          4902-4566-6367.1


                                                                                                       Page 22 of 62
IV. STUDENT ENROLLMENT PROJECTIONS


    A. Projected Student Enrollment 2024-2030 (Headcount)
    The District’s six-year enrollment projection is based on a forecast prepared by Flo
    Analytics, which considers enrollment projection models to estimate future enrollment,
    including cohort survival, grade progression, and population ratio. Local population, and
    housing and development trends are also considered.
    Due to compounding factors, K-12 enrollment has decreased. One factor hindering
    enrollment growth has been the slow growth in the child population within Evergreen School
    District boundaries. After averaging, 1,835 births each year from 2011-12 to 2015-16, birth
    totals fell to 1,626 in 2021-22 and rebounded to 1,756 in 2022-23. The annual K-to-birth
    ratio is a key metric representing a combination of net migration between birth and age five
    and the share of five-year-old residents enrolled in District K classes, often referred to as a
    “capture rate.” Ratios for Evergreen School District have fluctuated, recovering from the
    2020-21 low of 0.75, but have not returned to pre-pandemic levels. The middle scenario
    assumes that K-to-birth ratios will increase slightly in the next years before stabilizing at 0.89
    from 2028 through 2032.The District added more than 40,000 residents since 2000,
    including growth of over 18,000 between the 2010 and 2020 census. The school-age
    population, ages five to 17, decreased by 518 between 2010-2020, and annual average
    growth rate of -0.2 percent. The population under age five decreased by about 900 during
    the same period, resulting in an annual average growth rate of -0.9 percent.
    K-12 enrollment decreased by 843 students between 2017-18 and 2019-20, then decreased
    by 1,311 students in 2020-21 during the COVID-19 pandemic. Enrollment continued to
    decline in each subsequent year, losing 739, 207, 414 students in 2021-22, 2022-23, and
    2023-24, respectively, resulting in a six-year K-12 decline of 3,514 students (13.5 percent)
    between 2017-18 and 2023-24. The largest numeric and percentage enrollment loss
    between 2017-18 and 2023-24 among grade groups K-5, 6-8, 9-12 occurred in the K-5
    grade group, in which enrollment fell by 2,151 students (19.1 percent). Grades 6-8 also had
    enrollment losses over the 2017-18 to 2023-24 period amounting to 855 students (14.6
    percent). Enrollment in grades 9-12 decreased by 508 students (5.7 percent) between 2017-
    18 and 2023-24.
    In the middle growth scenario projected by Flo Analytics, K-12 enrollment is expected to
    decrease from 22,499 in 2023-24 to 20,740 in 2033-34, representing a loss of about 1,800
    students in the ten-year period. K-5 enrollment is expected to increase by 457 students (5.0
    percent), from 9,123 in 2023-24 to 9,580 in 2033-34, 6-8 enrollment is expected to decrease
    by 534 students (10.6 percent), from 5,021 to 4,487, and 9-12 enrollment is expected to
    decrease by 1,682 students (20.1 percent), from 8,355 to 6,673.
    As a result of projected future housing development, there is a potential to see growth in the
    following attendance areas: Fisher’s Landing Elementary, Harmony Elementary, Columbia
    Valley Elementary, Shahala Middle, Pacific Middle, Frontier Middle, Mountain View High,
    and Union High.




Evergreen Public Schools Capital Facilities Plan 2026-2032                                          10
                                                                                       4902-4566-6367.1


                                                                                                    Page 23 of 62
     Grade         Fall 2024    2025-26      2026-27     2027-28      2028-29   2029-30   2030-31
     Total K-5       9,046        8,883       8,795          8,813     8,871     9,056      9,205

     Total 6-8       4,844        4,751       4,684          4,686     4,624     4,491      4,381

     Total 9-12      8,240        7,783       7,554          7,308     7,161     7,024      6,982

     TOTAL           22,130      21,417      21,033          20,807   20,656    20,571     20,568




Evergreen Public Schools Capital Facilities Plan 2026-2032                                        11
                                                                                     4902-4566-6367.1


                                                                                                  Page 24 of 62
V. CAPITAL FACILITIES NEEDS
    A. Forecast Facility Needs
    Facility needs for purposes of the Growth Management Act and impact fees are based on
    existing capacity and forecast enrollment. The 2025 Facility needs are shown in the table
    below and the amount of the facility need that is attributed to forecast growth is described
    under the table.


                                                         2032 Projected
                 Facility             2024 Capacity                       2032 Facility Need
                                                           Enrollment

         Elementary Schools               13,942             9,369              -4573

         Middle Schools                   5,958              4,309              -1649

         High Schools                     10,500             6,938              -3562

                 TOTAL                    30,400             20,616             -9784



        •   Elementary Schools: The baseline enrollment forecast shows a decrease of
            students.
        •   Middle Schools: The baseline enrollment forecast for grades 6 through 8 shows a
            strong decline as grades matriculate through 2032. It should be noted that the
            replacement of Wy’east Middle during the 2018 bond was not treated as a growth-
            related facility need.
        •   High Schools: The baseline enrollment forecast shows a decrease of students as
            grades matriculate through 2032.
    B. Land Acquisition
    Acquisition of new school sites in advance of enrollment needs is critical to prepare to meet
    the challenge of potentially increasing enrollment and addressing existing needs. However,
    the District has experienced a decline in enrollment so it does not anticipate the need to
    acquire land in the near future. The District currently owns one potential middle school site
    and one small site to accommodate the expansion of support services. As growth occurs
    and enrollment follows suit, and both development regulations and educational
    programming are modified over time, these sites may not be suitable for development at the
    time when construction is needed.
    The District does have school replacement and capital renewal needs. A future bond would
    not add capacity as it is not projected for the District to see growth, but rather level out
    enrollment.




Evergreen Public Schools Capital Facilities Plan 2026-2032                                           12
                                                                                        4902-4566-6367.1


                                                                                                     Page 25 of 62
    VI. CAPITAL FACILITIES FINANCE PLAN


    A. Six Year Financing Plan
    Anticipated property acquisition and new construction is based on the enrollment forecast,
    capacity, the District's educational standards and the community's support of finance tools to
    fund the improvements. At the time of this plan’s adoption, there is no present need for new
    capital facilities.
    In the event that current facilities do not fully address space needs for student growth and a
    reduction in interim student housing (portables), the Board could consider various courses of
    action, including, but not limited to:
            •   Update this capital facilities plan;
            •   Increase class sizes;
            •   House students in additional portables;
            •   Alternative scheduling options;
            •   Change the instructional model, or
            •   Modify the school calendar




Evergreen Public Schools Capital Facilities Plan 2026-2032                                      13
                                                                                   4902-4566-6367.1


                                                                                                Page 26 of 62
VII. SCHOOL IMPACT FEES
     The GMA authorizes jurisdictions to collect impact fees to supplement funding of additional
     public facilities needed to accommodate new development. Impact fees cannot be used for
     the operation, maintenance, repair, alteration, or replacement of existing capital facilities
     used to meet existing service demands.
     A. School Impact Fees
     The county’s and cities’ impact fee programs require school districts to prepare and adopt
     CFPs meeting the specifications of the GMA and the county and city ordinances. Impact
     fees are calculated in accordance with the local jurisdiction’s formula, which is based on
     projected school facility costs necessitated by new growth contained in the District’s CFP.
     The formula allocates a portion of the cost for new facilities to the single family and multi-
     family house that create the demand (or need) based on a student factor, or the average
     number of students that live in new single family and multi-family homes. The formula also
     provides a credit for state match and Bond Proceeds (or property taxes).
     B. Methodology and Variables Used to Calculate School Impact Fees
     When assessed the District’s impact fees are calculated utilizing the formula in the Clark
     County and Vancouver impact fee ordinances.
     C. Proposed Impact Fee Schedule
     Based on the fact that adequate capacity exists at each grade level in existing facilities,
     and that enrollment is expected to decline, the District is not entitled to seek impact fees
     upon adoption of this plan. State law allows collected impact fees to be encumbered or
     spent within 10 years of when paid. RCW 82.02.080.




Evergreen Public Schools Capital Facilities Plan 2026-2032                                          14
                                                                                      4902-4566-6367.1


                                                                                                    Page 27 of 62
                                                                       EVERGREEN PUBLIC SCHOOLS
                                                                                APPENDIX A
                                                                       CAPITAL FACILITIES INVENTORY
                                                                                                          Attached   Detached
                                                                                        Building SF per
          ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS   SITE (ACRES)             ADDRESS             OCCUPANCY                     Covered    Covered    Portable SF   Modular SF   Other       Total SF
                                                                                             WAC
                                                                                                           Play SF    Play SF
                                              14619-A NE 49th Street
Burnt Bridge Creek                10.41                                       1988          49,414         4,230        0         9,408           0         500         63,552
                                              Vancouver, WA 98682
                                              13501 NE 28th Street
Burton                             17.4                                       2022          61,425           0        3,200          0            0          0          64,625
                                              Vancouver, WA 98684
                                              17500 SE Sequoia Circle
Columbia Valley                   11.58                                       2004          60,556         2,200      3,200          0            0          0          65,956
                                              Vancouver, WA 98683
                                              13003 SE 7th Street
Crestline                         10.77                                       2014          60,143         3,761      3,634          0            0          0          67,538
                                              Vancouver, WA 98683
                                              512 SE Ellsworth Road
Ellsworth                         10.14                                       2021          61,425           0        3,200          0            0          0          64,625
                                              Vancouver, WA 98664
                                              4000 NE 164th Avenue
Emerald                           9.43                                        2020          61,425           0        3,200          0            0          0          64,625
                                              Vancouver, WA 98682
                                              2701 NE Four Seasons Lane
Endeavour                          8.86                                       2008          60,556         2,200      3,200       6,272           0          0          72,228
                                              Vancouver, WA 98684
ESD 112 PreK (former 49th St                  14619-B 49th Street
                                   2.71                                       1988          10,799           0          0         1,568           0          0          12,367
Academy)                                      Vancouver, WA 98682
                                              13419 NE 28th Street
Home Choice Academy              w/BUR                                        2003            0              0          0            0          13,295       0          13,295
                                              Vancouver, WA 98684
                                              12001 NE 9th Street
Fircrest                          11.16                                       1976          54,400         4,500        0         1,568           0         500         60,968
                                              Vancouver, WA 98684
                                              3800 SE Hiddenbrook Drive
Fisher's Landing                  11.69                                       1996          49,972         4,010        0         9,408           0         500         63,890
                                              Vancouver, WA 98683
                                              17404-A NE 18th Street
Harmony                            13.7                                       1991          49,519         4,020        0         12,544          0         500         66,583
                                              Vancouver, WA 98684
                                              801 NE Hearthwood Boulevard
Hearthwood                        10.97                                       1981          49,100         4,500        0         1,568         4,608       500         60,276
                                              Vancouver, WA 98684
                                              19401 SE 1st Street
Illahee                            34.2                                       2001          55,699         4,016        0         4,704           0         500         64,919
                                              Camas, WA 98607
                                              5201 NE 131st Avenue
Image                             20.94                                       2020          61,425           0        3,200          0            0          0          64,625
                                              Vancouver, WA 98682
                                              10119 NE 14th Street
Marrion                           16.02                                       2021          61,425           0        3,200          0            0          0          64,625
                                              Vancouver, WA 98664
                                              16200 SE 6th St
Mill Plain                         8.64                                       2023          61,425           0        3,200          0            0          0          64,625
                                              Vancouver, WA 98684
                                              11405 NE 69th Street
Orchards                          11.81                                       2004          60,556         2,200       3200       3,136         5,040        0          74,132
                                              Vancouver, WA 98662
                                              7212 NE 166th Avenue
Pioneer                           47.24                                       1993          49,519         4,020        0         9,408           0          0          62,947
                                              Vancouver, WA 98682
                                              12601 SE Riveridge Drive
Riverview                         10.76                                       1976          54,400         4,500        0         1,568           0         500         60,968
                                              Vancouver, WA 98683
                                              7301 NE 137th Avenue
Sifton                            10.64                                       2020          61,425           0        3,200          0            0          0          64,625
                                              Vancouver, WA 98682
                                              10500 NE 86th Street
Silver Star                       11.92                                       1973          41,463         1,728      3,634       11,508          0          0          58,333
                                              Vancouver, WA 98662
                                              9001 NE 95th Street
Sunset                            10.11                                       1976          54,400         4,500        0         4,704           0         500         64,104
                                              Vancouver, WA 98662
                                              9301 NE 152nd Avenue
York                               11                                         2003          56,108         2,200      3,200          0            0          0          61,508
                                              Vancouver, WA 98682
TOTAL ELEMENTARY                  322.1                                                   1,246,579        52,585     42,468      77,364        22,943     4,000       1,445,939




Evergreen Public Schools                                                                                                                                                  Page 1of 2
                                                                                                                                                                   Page 28 of 62
                                                                                  EVERGREEN PUBLIC SCHOOLS
                                                                                           APPENDIX A
                                                                                  CAPITAL FACILITIES INVENTORY


                                                                                                                          Attached   Detached
                                                                                                        Building SF per
            MIDDLE SCHOOLS            SITE (ACRES)               ADDRESS                 OCCUPANCY                        Covered    Covered     Portable SF   Modular SF   Other       Total SF
                                                                                                             WAC
                                                                                                                           Play SF    Play SF


                                                     13900 NE 18th Street
Cascade                                   16.4                                              2004           110,315           0        6,570        3,136         8,064      1,000       129,085
                                                     Vancouver, WA 98684
                                                     11200 NE Rosewood Avenue
Covington                                21.45                                              2006           112,361           0        3,200        7,840         8,064      1,000       132,465
                                                     Vancouver, WA 98662
                                                     7600 NE 166th Avenue
Frontier                                 w/PIO                                              1995           101,046           0        3,600        17,248          0        2,000       123,894
                                                     Vancouver, WA 98682
                                                     2017 NE 172nd Avenue
Pacific                                  17.18                                              1983           106,581           0        2,946        29,792          0         500        139,819
                                                     Vancouver, WA 98684
                                                     601 SE 192nd Avenue
Shahala                                  w/ILL                                              2001           104,298           0        3,224        18,816          0         720        127,058
                                                     Vancouver, WA 98683
                                                     1112 SE 136th Avenue
Wy'east                                   25                                                2022           134,860         3,637        0             0            0        500         138,997
                                                     Vancouver, WA 98683
TOTAL MIDDLE SCHOOLS                     80.03                                                             669,461         3,637      19,540       76,832        16,128     5,720       791,318




                                                                                                                          Attached   Detached
                                                                                                        Building SF per
             HIGH SCHOOLS             SITE (ACRES)               ADDRESS                 OCCUPANCY                        Covered    Covered     Portable SF   Modular SF   Other       Total SF
                                                                                                             WAC
                                                                                                                           Play SF    Play SF



                                                     13300 NE 9th St, Vancouver
Legacy                                    6.6                                               2021            27,700           0        1,440           0            0          0          29,140
                                                     WA 98684
                                                     13400 NE 9th St, Vancouver
Hollingsworth Academy                   w/LHS                                               2021            28,710           0          0             0            0          0          28,710
                                                     WA 98684
                                                     13500 NE 9th St, Vancouver
Archway Academy (fka Transitions)       w/LHS                                               2021            8,460            0          0             0            0          0          8,460
                                                     WA 98684
Evergreen (includes Sports Annex in
                                                     14300 NE 18th Street
bldg sf only - see below for             27.77                                            1969/2007        264,354           0          0          13,748          0        1,619       279,721
                                                     Vancouver, WA 98684
parcel/acres)
                                                     9105 NE 9th Street
HeLa                                     2.89                                               2013            69,008           0        3,600           0            0          0          72,608
                                                     Vancouver, WA 98664
                                                     7825 NE 130th Avenue
Heritage                                 45.44                                            1999/2022        253,601           0          0             0            0        1,700       255,301
                                                     Vancouver, WA 98682
                                                     2219 NE 138th Ave, Vancouver,
Old Legacy - LHX (Leasing to EOCF)       6.81                                               1987            11,554           0          0          3,136         5,180       M           19,870
                                                     WA 98684
                                                     1500 SE Blairmont Drive
Mountain View                            38.23                                              2022           279,411           0          0             0            0        3,250       282,661
                                                     Vancouver, WA 98683
                                                     6201 NW Friberg/Strunk Street
Union                                    45.75                                              2007           234,900           0          0             0          11,648       0         246,548
                                                     Camas, WA 98607
TOTAL HIGH SCHOOLS                      173.49                                                            1,177,698          0        5,040        16,884        16,828     6,569       1,223,019
                                                     12200 NE 28th Street
Cascadia Technical Academy               11.91                                           1983 to 2014      100,704           0          0             0            0          0         100,704
                                                     Vancouver, WA 98682
TOTAL CCVSC                              11.91                                                             100,704           0          0             0            0          0         100,704

           SUPPORT FACILITIES         SITE (ACRES)              ADDRESS              OCCUPANCY                SF                                 Portable SF   Modular SF   Other       Total SF
                                                     13413 NE LeRoy Haagen
Administrative Services Center           5.97        Memorial Dr. Vancouver, WA         2021                71,940           0          0             0            0          0          71,940
                                                     98684
                                                     14405 NE 28th St., Vancouver WA
Evergreen HS Sports Annex                18.03                                          2022                                                see Evergreen High School
                                                     98684
                                                     3004 NE 124th Avenue
Maintenance                              2.57                                           1981                7,000            0          0             0            0          0          7,000
                                                     Vancouver, WA 98682
                                                     2211 NE 138th Ave, Vancouver
McKenzie Stadium                         5.75                                           1984                4,916            0          0             0            0          0          4,916
                                                     WA 98684
                                                     14015 NE 28th St., Vancouver WA
Transportation                           22.66                                          2024                26,000           0          0           950            0          0          26,950
                                                     98682
                                                     2205 NE 138th Avenue
Warehouse (Central Receiving)            5.71                                           1976                25,000           0          0             0            0          0          25,000
                                                     Vancouver, WA 98684
TOTAL SUPPORT FACILITIES                 60.69                                                             134,856           0          0           950            0          0         135,806

          VACANT LAND                 SITE (ACRES)                ADDRESS                                                                                                               Total SF
Future School Site (across from                      NE 9th St / NE 136nd Avenue
                                         6.05                                                N/A              0              0          0             0            0          0            0
Winco)                                               Vancouver, WA 98682
NE Corner of Marrion ES                  1.54        No situs address                        N/A              0              0          0             0            0          0            0
NE Corner of MTV (soccer field)          0.95        No situs address                        N/A              0              0          0             0            0          0            0
NE Corner of MTV                         2.32        No situs address                        N/A              0              0          0             0            0          0            0
                                                     No situs address (SE 29th St & SE
Vancouver Innovation Center               20                                                 N/A              0              0          0             0            0          0            0
                                                     176th Ave)
TOTAL VACANT LAND                        30.86                                                                0              0          0             0            0          0            0




Evergreen Public Schools                                                                                                                                                                   Page 2of 2
                                                                                                                                                                                    Page 29 of 62
                                     EVERGREEN PUBLIC SCHOOLS
                                             APPENDIX B
                                 POPULATION/ENROLLMENT PROJECTIONS


Enrollment Forecasts by Individual Grade – Middle Scenario




Enrollment Forecasts by Individual Grade – High Scenario




Data reported as of June 2024



                                                                     Page 30 of 62
Comprehensive Plan adoption of
Evergreen Public Schools Capital
Facilities Plan and impact fees

Planning Commission Public Hearing



Bryan Snodgrass
Principal Planner
Community Development Department
September 8, 2026
                                   Page 31 of 62
                                                                        Agenda
                                                                       • Staff review of 2026-32
                                                                         Evergreen Public
                                                                         Schools Capital
                                                                         Facilities Plan and
                                                                         associated Impact Fees
                                                                       • Planning Commission
                                                                         questions, public
                                                                         comment,
                                                                         deliberations and
                                                                         recommendation to
                                                                         City Council

2 | Evergreen Public Schools Capital Facilities Plan and Impact Fees
                                                                                              Page 32 of 62
 School Impact Fees (SIFs)
   • Authorized to fund new or expanded capital facilities to serve new
     growth for next six years
   • Collected from residential projects based on fees established
     under new Vancouver Municipal Code (VMC) 20.450.030
   • Fees based on City review of SIF recommendations in 6-year
     Capital Facilities Plans from Vancouver, Evergreen, and Camas
     school districts




3 | Evergreen Public Schools Capital Facilities Plan and Impact Fees
                                                                       Page 33 of 62
Evergreen Public Schools (EPS)
2026-2032 Capital Facilities Plan (CFP)
 • Adopted by EPS Board in June 2025 with
   recommendation for zero impact fees,
   based on declining enrollments and lack of
   eligible facility needs for next six years.
   See page 266 of Comprehensive Plan.
 • Reviewed by Commission on July 14.




4 | Evergreen Public Schools Capital Facilities Plan and Impact Fees
                                                                       Page 34 of 62
Sample motion

• Amend the Comprehensive Plan to adopt
  by reference the Evergreen Public
  Schools 2026-2032 Capital Facilities Plan
  and the EPS recommended zero impact
  fees for this timeframe, based on
  recommendation and findings in the staff
  report for the September 8, 2026
  Planning Commission hearing


5 | Evergreen Public Schools Capital Facilities Plan and Impact Fees
                                                                       Page 35 of 62
                                                                       Next Steps
                                                                       • City Council hearing to adopt
                                                                         EPS Capital Facilities Plan
                                                                         anticipated November 16 as part
                                                                         of biennial budget process
                                                                       • Future proportional impact fee
                                                                         updates not anticipated to
                                                                         change EPS impact fees.




6 | Evergreen Public Schools Capital Facilities Plan and Impact Fees
                                                                                                     Page 36 of 62
                                                    Thank You




                     bryan.snodgrass@cityofvancouver.us               360-487-7946

7 |Evergreen Public Schools Capital Facilities Plan and Impact Fees
                                                                                     Page 37 of 62
                                                                      MEMORANDUM

DATE:            August 14, 2026

TO:              Chair Adigweme and Planning Commission members

FROM:            Bryan Snodgrass, Principal Planner, Community Development Department

RE:              Zoning Code changes to implement HB 1491 housing affordability
                 mandates - Memo in Lieu of Workshop

CC:              Rebecca Kenneday, Deputy Director, Community Development
                 Department


Background

This memorandum is provided to the Commission in lieu of a workshop, for upcoming proposed
zoning code changes to implement specific statutory requirements to implement House Bill
(HB) 1491. The Washington legislature passed this bill in 2025 to promote transit-oriented
development and affordable housing near frequent transit service. A Planning Commission
hearing is scheduled for September 8, 2026. A City Council workshop on HB 1491 was held on
August 10, 2026 (for more information, refer to the workshop materials and recording,
beginning at 44:46). Council hearings have not yet been scheduled.

HB 1491 Requirements

HB 1491 applies in Vancouver’s case to a quarter mile walking distance from all 51 existing Bus
Rapid Transit (BRT) stations. These station areas are subject to the following requirements:

      •   Allowing higher-density multifamily and mixed-use housing with Floor Area Ratios (FAR)
          averaging at least 2.5.
              o Buildings with all affordable housing must be allowed an additional 1.5 FAR
              o Mass timber must also be provided an incentive
      •   Eliminating any requirements for off-street parking for residential and mixed-use
          projects



            P.O. Box 1995 | Vancouver, WA 98668-1995 | 360-487-8000 | TTY: 711 | cityofvancouver.us


                                                                                                      Page 38 of 62
   •   Reducing impact fees by 50% for projects utilizing the 20-year Multi-Family Tax
       Exemption (MFTE)
   •   Establishing mandatory affordability requirements
   •   Offering a 20-year MFTE for properties meeting these thresholds

According to HB 1491, residential developments within the station areas must include one of
the following:

    • At least 10% of the units must be affordable for households earning 60% of Area Median
      Income (AMI) for 50 years, or
    • At least 20% of the units affordable at 80% AMI for 50 years, or
    • At least 10% of the units affordable at 80% AMI for 50 years, provided at least 10% of the
      units have two or more bedrooms

These affordability requirements must be provided in each individual building and do not allow
for a master planned community to provide all the affordability for a larger development in
one or some of the buildings.

To comply with HB 1491, cities must identify the properties within the station areas that are
subject to affordability requirements and include the affordability thresholds in local zoning
codes. Exemptions from the affordability requirements are allowed for properties that had
previously been zoned to allow FARs that meet or exceed the new HB 1491 FAR standards.
Cities may also exempt an additional 25% of otherwise non-exempt properties within each
station area if they allow for an additional 0.5 FAR average (total of 3.0 FAR).

The deadline for cities to comply with HB 1491’s statutory requirements is based on the date of
their comprehensive plan update is required to be completed in the current Periodic Review
cycle. Vancouver’s deadline was December 31, 2025, though we didn’t adopt until June 1, 2026.
, and Vancouver is the only city currently subject to HB 1491 based on the deadlines for other
jurisdictions and presence of high capacity transit in other cities. The Department of Commerce
recently finalized a state model code to preempt local zoning for non-compliant jurisdictions
and anticipates completing guidance documents for local compliance this fall. Notably, this
occurred months after Vancouver’s legislatively mandated compliance deadline Staff
understand, and are communicating with applicants, that the state model code applies to
impacted, non-exempt parcels until the City adds the affordability components to its code and
becomes fully compliant with the requirements of HB 1491.

Staff Analysis

HB 1491 uses FAR to measure density allowed by code, but Vancouver does not. Therefore, the
City has submitted a Substantially Similar Determination request to the State Department of
Commerce to translate local code standards to FAR equivalency to demonstrate alignment
with the law. If the Substantially Similar Determination is approved, the newly adopted
Vancouver Comprehensive Plan and zoning code (Title 20 of the Vancouver Municipal Code)
address most of the HB 1491 requirements, with the exception of mandating affordability and
implementation of the 20-year MFTE option. To address this, zoning code changes are needed

                                                                                          2



                                                                                         Page 39 of 62
to establish the specific minimum affordability thresholds dictated by HB 1491, and Title 3
changes will be needed to address the new MFTE allowances also required.

The scope of the September 8th Planning Commission hearing will be limited to the Title 20
zoning code changes that incorporate the specific affordability thresholds required by HB
1491. These changes include the addition of the affordability mandate and allowance for a 50%
reduction in transportation impact fees for projects utilizing 20-year MFTE.

As noted in the materials for the recent Council workshop, City Community Development and
Economic Prosperity and Housing staff have concerns about the affordability threshold
requirements of HB 1491, because they have the potential to undermine housing production
and affordability goals. Specifically, the requirement for 50 years of affordability is only offset
by a 20-year MFTE allowance. This is effectively a partially funded inclusionary zoning
requirement, which has been proven elsewhere to reduce housing production within impacted
areas. In effect, the affordability requirements may discourage residential or mixed-use
development close to transit, pushing development activity away from our most targeted
growth areas.

In addition, requiring a share of affordable units within each building and not allowing them to
be spread across a master planned community will further challenge the feasibility of
individual developments, given that there are more options for financing standalone
affordable housing compared to mixed income developments.

Despite these concerns, the City must adopt zoning code changes to comply with the state law.
Staff first focused on identifying the properties subject to the affordability threshold
requirements. The legislation allowed for exemptions to the affordability requirements in the
following circumstances:
    • The zoning in place on a given parcel on Jan. 1, 2025 met the minimum FAR thresholds
        established in the law;
    • Local discretion to exempt 25% of total impacted parcels based on local preference;

Staff analysis indicates that all parcels located in the Vancouver City Center Vision subarea and
associated CX Plan District in the previous zoning code met the minimum FAR threshold and
are thus exempt from the affordability requirements. In addition, staff identified parcels
making up to 25% of otherwise non-exempt station area that are anticipated as most likely to
redevelop and added them to the exemption list. The resulting preliminary map of non-exempt
properties that would be subject to the housing affordability requirements is attached to the
memorandum. Staff does not envision codifying this map, but will post it to the City’s website,
consistent with HB 1491 requirements once the State confirms the list through the
Substantially Similar Determination. The affordability threshold language changes are
proposed in VMC 20.410, Zoning Districts and the transportation impact fee reduction are
proposed in VMC 20.450.




                                                                                            3



                                                                                           Page 40 of 62
Action, Timeline, Next Steps

Because the required changes are few and explicitly prescribed by statute, this memorandum is
being provided rather than scheduling a Commission workshop in advance of the September 8
public hearing. A staff report will be published 10 days in advance of the public hearing with
specific affordability threshold code language.

As noted, Council hearings have not yet been scheduled.

The City of Vancouver lobbied for changes in the most recent legislative session to address
staff’s concerns with the incentives being inadequate to fully fund the affordability
requirements and will continue to do so going forward.

Staff contact on the affordability threshold code changes is Bryan Snodgrass, Principal
Planner, Community Development Department; bryan.snodgrass@cityofvancouver.us

Attachments:
   1. Map of station areas as defined by HB 1491

   2. Map of non-exempt properties subject to affordability requirements within
      Vancouver’s station areas


1. City of Vancouver station areas defined by HB 1491




                                                                                           4



                                                                                          Page 41 of 62
2. Non-exempt parcels within station areas subject to affordability requirements




                                                                                    5



                                                                                   Page 42 of 62
                                                                                   Context Map - 1491 Analysis

                         Methodology
In order to determine which properties were affected by the requirements of HB
 1491, station areas were delineated using high-capacity transit stations along
the C-TRAN Vine route. Station selection was conducted on an omnidirectional
 basis, meaning eastbound and westbound platforms were treated as separate
  station locations unless they were located within 200 feet of one another. In
  those cases, the two platforms were consolidated into a single station point
   using the midpoint between the paired stops. All stations were pulled to the
roadway centerline, even in the instance of a standalone station. Each resulting
    station was assigned a unique station identifier consisting of a randomly
          generated number from 1 to 41 for use throughout the analysis.

   A quarter-mile pedestrian walkshed was generated for each station using
  ArcGIS Network Analyst. Rather than applying a simple Euclidean buffer, the
   walkshed measured one-quarter mile of travel distance along the existing
transportation network. All tax parcels intersecting each quarter-mile walkshed
                  were identified and included in the analysis.

 Because many parcels fell within the walksheds of multiple stations, a parcel
assignment methodology was developed to ensure each parcel was attributed
to a single station area. Thiessen (Voronoi) polygons were generated from the
    final station point dataset to partition the study area based on relative
proximity to each station. Parcels located within overlapping walksheds were
     assigned to the station whose Thiessen polygon contained the parcel,
    effectively attributing each parcel to its nearest station. This approach
  produced a non-overlapping set of station service areas while maintaining
   consistency with the quarter-mile network-based accessibility analysis
             required for evaluating compliance with House Bill 1491.



                                                                                                B


                                                                                         A

                                                                                                C       D        E




                                                                                                                     Page 43 of 62
  A                      Stations:
                         Area A
                                                                                             8




Legend
Station ID’s                              #
    Station 1   Station 7    Station 15         Station

    Station 2   Station 10   Station 16         1/4 mile walkshed
    Station 3   Station 11   Station 17
                                          *Station service areas were calculated using 1/4
    Station 4   Station 12   Station 18   mile walk distance on the pedestrian network.

    Station 5   Station 13   Station 19

   Station 6    Station 14                                                                       0   0.17   0.35 mi

                                                                                                                      Page 44 of 62
 A                   Exempt Status:
                     Area A
                                                                                             8




Legend
                                   3
  Exempt                                 Station
  25% Exemption under
                                         1/4 mile walkshed
  RCW 36.70A.840(2)(a)(ii)
  Not Exempt         *Station service areas were calculated using 1/4
                     mile walk distance on the pedestrian network.

                                                                        0   0.17   0.35 mi

                                                                                                 Page 45 of 62
B   Stations:
    Area B




                                     Legend
                                     Station ID’s                               #
                                                                                      Station
                                         Station 8    Station 24   Station 34
                                                                                      1/4 mile walkshed
                                         Station 9    Station 30   Station 38

                                         Station 20   Station 33   Station 39
                                                                                *Station service areas were calculated using 1/4
                                                                                mile walk distance on the pedestrian network.


                0   0.17   0.35 mi

                                                                                                                      Page 46 of 62
B   Exempt Status:
    Area B




                     Legend
                                                        3
                       Exempt                                 Station
                       25% Exemption under
                                                              1/4 mile walkshed
                       RCW 36.70A.840(2)(a)(ii)
                       Not Exempt         *Station service areas were calculated using 1/4
                                          mile walk distance on the pedestrian network.

                                                                                             0   0.17   0.35 mi

                                                                                                                  Page 47 of 62
 C                 Stations:
                   Area C




Legend
Station ID’s                           #
                                             Station
    Station 22   Station 32
                                              1/4 mile walkshed
    Station 23   Station 35

    Station 31   Station 36
                              *Station service areas were calculated using 1/4
                              mile walk distance on the pedestrian network.
                                                                                 0   0.17   0.35 mi

                                                                                                      Page 48 of 62
 C                   Exempt Status:
                     Area C




Legend
                                   3
  Exempt                                 Station
  25% Exemption under
                                         1/4 mile walkshed
  RCW 36.70A.840(2)(a)(ii)
  Not Exempt         *Station service areas were calculated using 1/4
                     mile walk distance on the pedestrian network.

                                                                        0   0.17   0.35 mi

                                                                                             Page 49 of 62
     D                    Stations:
                          Area D




Legend
Station ID’s                           #
                                             Station
    Station 21   Station 28
                                              1/4 mile walkshed
    Station 25   Station 41

    Station 27
                              *Station service areas were calculated using 1/4
                              mile walk distance on the pedestrian network.
                                                                                 0   0.17   0.35 mi

                                                                                                      Page 50 of 62
 D                   Exempt Status:
                     Area D




Legend
                                   3
  Exempt                                 Station
  25% Exemption under
                                         1/4 mile walkshed
  RCW 36.70A.840(2)(a)(ii)
  Not Exempt         *Station service areas were calculated using 1/4
                     mile walk distance on the pedestrian network.

                                                                        0   0.17   0.35 mi

                                                                                             Page 51 of 62
  E                      Stations:
                         Area E




Legend
Station ID’s                           #
                                             Station
    Station 26   Station 37
                                              1/4 mile walkshed
    Station 29   Station 40


                              *Station service areas were calculated using 1/4
                              mile walk distance on the pedestrian network.
                                                                                 0   0.14   0.28 mi

                                                                                                      Page 52 of 62
 E                   Exempt Status:
                     Area E




Legend
                                   3
  Exempt                                 Station
  25% Exemption under
                                         1/4 mile walkshed
  RCW 36.70A.840(2)(a)(ii)
  Not Exempt         *Station service areas were calculated using 1/4
                     mile walk distance on the pedestrian network.

                                                                        0   0.14   0.28 mi

                                                                                             Page 53 of 62
HB 1491 Housing Affordability
Zoning Code Changes

Planning Commission Public
Hearing

 Bryan Snodgrass
 Principal Planner
 Community Development Department
 September 8, 2026
                                    Page 54 of 62
                                                            Agenda
                                                           • Staff review of
                                                             recommended code changes
                                                             for minimum housing
                                                             affordability thresholds and
                                                             transportation impact fee
                                                             reduction near transit
                                                           • Planning Commission
                                                             questions, public comment,
                                                             deliberations and
                                                             recommendation to City
                                                             Council

2 | HB 1491 housing affordability threshold code changes
                                                                                   Page 55 of 62
 HB 1491 - Overview
 • Passed in 2025 to promote transit-
   oriented development and affordable
   housing near transit through higher
   density requirements, parking elimination
   and 50% Transportation Impact Fee
   reductions, Multi-Family Tax Exemption
   (MFTE) incentives, and required
   affordable housing thresholds
 • Only affordable housing requires new
   Title 20 zoning code changes
 • State pre-emptive model code in place
3 | HB 1491 housing affordability threshold code changes
                                                           Page 56 of 62
HB 1491 - Impacted Properties
• Station areas near transit are defined to
  include properties within ¼ mile walkshed
  of all 51 bus rapid transit (BRT) stations in
  Vancouver
• Properties within station areas can be
  exempted if previously zoned for sufficient
  Floor Area Ratios (FAR), such as downtown
• Further exemptions of up to 25% of parcels
  near other stations allowed
• Detailed mapping of non-exempt properties
  to be referenced and linked in code
4 | HB 1491 housing affordability threshold code changes
                                                           Page 57 of 62
HB 1491 - Impacted Properties General




5 |
                                        Page 58 of 62
HB 1491 - Housing Affordability Thresholds
Residential development on impacted
properties within ¼ mile walkshed of station
areas must include, for 50 years:
• at least 10% of the housing units affordable at
  60% Area Median Income (AMI), or
• at least 20% of units affordable at 80% AMI, or
• at least 10% of units affordable at 80% AMI,
  and at least 10% of the units have two or
  more bedrooms


6 | HB 1491 housing affordability threshold code changes
                                                           Page 59 of 62
Sample motion
Amend Vancouver Municipal Code (VMC)
20.530 to include minimum housing
affordability thresholds on impacted
properties near transit as required by HB
1491, and reduce transportation impact
fees, based on recommendation and
findings in the staff report for the
September 8, 2026, Planning Commission
hearing.


7 | HB 1491 housing affordability threshold code changesHB 1 HB 1491 housing affordability threshold code changes 491 ho HB 1491 housing affordability
threshold code changes using affordability threshold code changes
                                                                                                                                                         Page 60 of 62
                                                           Next Steps
                                                           • City Council hearing to
                                                             adopt Title 20 zoning code
                                                             affordability thresholds
                                                             scheduled October 12
                                                           • Staff to monitor impacts and
                                                             continue to lobby for
                                                             changes to HB 1491 to
                                                             address concerns



8 | HB 1491 housing affordability threshold code changes
                                                                                      Page 61 of 62
                                                   Thank You




                     bryan.snodgrass@cityofvancouver.us        360-487-7946

9 HB 1491 housing affordability threshold code changes
                                                                              Page 62 of 62
