
	RCW 59.20.390: 
Menu
Website Search Term
Search 
                Menu
Menu
Website Search Term
Search 
Bills, meetings, and session
Bills, meetings, and session
Bills
How to track a bill
How to comment on a bill
Help with bills
Data and statistics
Prefiled bills for 2025
Meeting schedules
Session
How to testify at a committee meeting
Session documents
Initiatives and referenda
State laws and rules
State laws and rules
Washington State Constitution
State laws (RCW)
Session laws
Past versions of state laws
Help with state laws
State rules (WAC)
Past versions of state rules
Washington State Register
Rule-making help
Rule-making activity
Rule Drafting Service (RDS)
Learn and participate
Learn and participate
Civic education programs
Page Program
Internship Program
Legislative Scholar Program
How a bill becomes a law
How to participate in the lawmaking process
Educational resources
Classroom and learning materials
Legislative documents in alphabetical order
Pension education
State symbols
Civics organizations
State budgets (fiscal.wa.gov)
Glossary of legislative terms
Legislators
Legislators
District Finder
Legislator directories
How to send a message to a legislator
House and Senate class photos
House Class Photos
Senate Class Photos
About the Legislature
About the Legislature
House of Representatives
House Administration
Office of Program Research
Senate
Senate Committee Services
Schedules
Leadership
Administration
Committees
Legislative Information Center
Legislative agencies
Joint Legislative Audit and Review Committee (JLARC)
Joint Transportation Committee (JTC)
Legislative Ethics Board (LEB)
Legislative Evaluation and Accountability Program (LEAP) Committee
Legislative Service Center (LEG-TECH)
Legislative Support Services (LSS)
Office of the Code Reviser (CRO)
Office of State Legislative Labor Relations (OSLLR)
Office of the State Actuary (OSA)
Legislative procedures
House rules
Senate rules
Joint rules
Reed's Rules
Senate emergency parliamentary rules
Senate committee room rules
Code Reviser's Office Procedures
Ethics Board rules
Washington State Constitution
Ethics
Ethics advisory opinions
Ethics complaint opinions
Ethics alerts
Ethics reports
Ethics complaint form
History of the Legislature
Enabling Act
Territorial history
Senate Presidents
Preserving Capitol furniture
Home
 / 
State laws and rules
 / 
RCWs
 / 
Title 59
 / 
Chapter 59.20
 / 
Section 59.20.390
Print
59.20.380
  << 
                59.20.390 >>  
59.20.901
PDF
RCW  59.20.390
Landlord
—
Notice of rent increases
—
Form.
(1)(a) Except as provided in subsection (2) of this section, a landlord must provide a tenant with notice of rent increases in a form that is substantially the same as the form provided in subsection (3) of this section.
(b) Notice under this section must also:
(i) Comply with the requirements in RCW  
59.20.090
(2) related to the number of months of prior written notice required for a rent increase; and
(ii) Be served in accordance with RCW  
59.20.150
.
(2) The notice of rent increase requirement in this section does not apply if the rental agreement governs a subsidized tenancy where the amount of rent is based on, in whole or in part, a percentage of the income of the tenant or other circumstances specific to the subsidized household. However, for purposes of this section, a subsidized tenancy does not include tenancies where some or all of the rent paid to the landlord comes from a portable tenant-based voucher or similar portable assistance administered through a housing authority or other state or local agency, or tenancies in other types of affordable housing where maximum unit rents are limited by area median income levels and a tenant's base rent does not change as the tenant's income does.
(3) "TO TENANTS: (tenant name(s))
AT ADDRESS: (tenant address)
RENT AND FEE INCREASE NOTICE TO TENANTS
This notice is required by Washington state law to inform you of your rights regarding rent and fee increases. Your rent or rental amount includes all recurring and periodic charges, sometimes referred to as rent and fees, identified in your rental agreement for the use and occupancy of your manufactured/mobile home lot. Washington state limits how much your landlord can raise your rent and any other recurring or periodic charges for the use and occupancy of your manufactured/mobile home lot.
(1) Your landlord can raise your rent and other recurring or periodic charges once every 12 months by up to five percent, as allowed by RCW  
59.20.370
. Your landlord is not required to raise the rent or other recurring or periodic charges by any amount.
(2) Your landlord may be exempt from the five percent limit on increases for rent and other recurring or periodic charges for the reasons described in RCW  
59.20.380
. If your landlord claims an exemption, your landlord is required to include supporting facts with this notice.
(3) Your landlord must properly and fully complete the form below to notify you of any increases in rent and other recurring or periodic charges and any exemptions claimed.
Your landlord (name) intends to (check one of the following):
__ Raise your rent and/or other recurring and periodic charges: Your total increase in rent and other recurring or periodic charges effective (date) will be (percent), which totals an additional $(dollar amount) per month, for a new total amount of $(dollar amount) per month for rent and other recurring or periodic charges.
This increase in rent and/or other recurring and periodic charges is allowed by state law and is (check one of the following):
__ A lower increase than the maximum allowed by state law.
__ The maximum increase allowed by state law.
__ Authorized by an exemption under RCW  
59.20.380
. If the increase is authorized by an exemption, your landlord must fill out the section of the form below.
EXEMPTIONS CLAIMED BY LANDLORD
I (landlord name) certify that I am allowed under Washington state law to raise your rent and other recurring or periodic charges by (percent), which is more than the maximum increase otherwise allowed by state law, because I am claiming the following exemption under RCW  
59.20.380
 (check one of the following):
__ You live on a manufactured/mobile home lot owned by a public housing authority, public development authority, or nonprofit organization where maximum rents are regulated by other laws or local, state, or federal affordable housing program requirements, or a qualified low-income housing development as defined in RCW  
82.45.010
, where the property is owned by a public housing authority, public development authority, or nonprofit organization. (The landlord must include facts or attach documents supporting the exemption.)
__ You live in a manufactured/mobile home community that was purchased during the past 12 months by an eligible organization as defined in RCW  
59.20.030
 whose mission aligns with the long-term preservation and affordability of your manufactured/mobile home community, so the eligible organization may increase the rent and other recurring or periodic charges for your manufactured/mobile home community in an amount greater than allowed under RCW  
59.20.370
 as needed to cover the cost of purchasing your manufactured/mobile home community if the increase is approved by vote or agreement with the majority of the manufactured/mobile home owners in your manufactured/mobile home community. (The landlord must include facts or attach documents supporting the exemption.)
__ Your manufactured/mobile home lot rental agreement is up for first renewal after it was transferred to you under RCW  
59.20.073
, so your landlord is allowed to make a one-time increase to your rent and other recurring or periodic charges in an amount not limited by RCW  
59.20.370
. In order to exercise this one-time increase option, the landlord must have provided you with notice of this option prior to the final transfer of the rental agreement to you. (The landlord must include facts or attach documents supporting the exemption, including evidence that proper notice of this one-time increase option was provided to you prior to the final transfer of the rental agreement.)"
[ 
2026 c 118 s 101
;  
2025 c 209 s 203
.]
Notes:
Effective date
—
2025 c 209:
 See note following RCW  
59.18.700
.
Legislative questions or comments
                    Call the Legislative Hotline
1-800-562-6000
TTY for deaf/hard of hearing: 
1-800-833-6388
Learn more about the Legislative Hotline
Studies, audits, and reports
Performance audits
Actuarial reporting
Transportation studies and reports
Reports from outside organizations
Investigation reports
Accessibility
Jobs
                                    Public records requests
Site help
Contact us
Email updates (GovDelivery)
Disclaimer
Privacy Notice
 Copyright 2025. All Rights Reserved.
