                                                                  Vancouver City Council
                                                                  Anne McEnerny-Ogle, Mayor
                                                                  Bart Hansen - Ty Stober - Erik Paulsen
                                                                  Sarah J. Fox - Diana H. Perez - Kim D.
                                                                  Harless

                                 City Council Meeting Agenda
                                      September 28, 2026
In accordance with the Open Public Meetings Act (OPMA), the Vancouver City Council meeting will be open to
in-person attendance. The City Council will be attending this meeting in person.

Written and verbal testimony will be accepted in the following manner:

     • Written comments submitted in advance: Email comments to the City Council until 12:00 p.m.
       September 28, 2026. Comments will be compiled and sent to the City Council and entered into the
       record.
     • In-person testimony during the Community Forum: In-person, check in at Rooted School
       Vancouver. In-person participation is open during the entirety of the forum, for those that are registered,
       on September 28, 2026. Instructions will be provided on-site.

Visit the https://www.cityofvancouver.us/events/city-council-community-forum-18/ for more information and to
register for the forum.
Call to Order and Roll Call

Community Forum

2:00 PM
Rooted School Vancouver - 10401 NE Fourth Plain Blvd, Vancouver, WA 98662

The September Council Community Forum invites community members to engage directly with City
Council members in small-group conversations. This year, each forum will have a main discussion
topic, based on the Council’s priorities of equity, safety and climate action. Community members are
welcome to talk about other issues, but all participants will be invited to share their experiences and
ideas related to the main topic. Members of the public addressing Council are requested to give their
name and city of residence for the record. Speakers are to limit their testimony to a total of three
minutes. Up to 90 minutes will be allotted for the Community Forum.


Rooted School Vancouver is served by C-TRAN. Route information and schedules are available
online at www.c-tran.com. You also may reach C-TRAN at (360) 695-0123 for more information on
times, fares, and routes.

Anyone needing language interpretation services or accommodations with a disability at a Vancouver
City Council meeting may contact the City Manager's staff at (360) 487-8600 (RELAY: 711). Assistive
listening devices and live Closed Captioning are available for the deaf, hard of hearing and general
public use. Please notify a staff person if you wish to use one of the devices. Every attempt at
reasonable accommodation will be made. To request this agenda in another format, please also
contact the phone numbers listed above.
