                                                                                         COUNCIL TIME
                                                                                        MEETING MINUTES


               Council Meetings will be held in a hybrid format, and the public is encouraged to participate.
                In person attendance at the Public Service Center, 6th Floor, Conference Room 680,
                       1300 Franklin Street, Vancouver, WA 98660 or virtually using WebEx


Wednesday, September 30, 2026 • 1:00 PM

Councilor Roll Call
   •   Yung – Present
   •   Belkot – Present
   •   Fuentes – Present
   •   Little – Present
   •   Marshall – Present

Amendments to the Agenda
NONE

Public Comment
   1. Bruce Barnes
   2. Carmen DeLeon
   3. Kimberlee Goheen-Elbon

Old Business
Approval of minutes for September 23, 2026
   ACTION: Moved by Councilor Little to APPROVE Minutes for September 23, 2026. Councilor Belkot seconded
           the motion. Yung, Belkot, Little, Marshall aye/Fuentes abstain/motion passed.

New Business
   •   Philbrook Farms Update
           o Jeff Schnabel, Public Works Engineering Services Manager, and Ken Lader, Public Works Director,
               provided the update on Philbrook Farms including background information, issues with flooding, and
               possible actions for council’s consideration.
           o Discussion and Questions were had by Council.
           o Council majority supported moving forward as suggested by Ken Lader with the no action alternative,
               Public Works will follow up with Clark Public Utilities (Clark PUD), Clean Water Commission, and
               the Development and Engineering Advisory Board and inform council at a later date of the plan.
   •   SAVE Act Letter Request
           o Jordan Boege, Senior Policy Analyst, provided an overview of the letter requested by Washington State
               Association of County (WSAC) and the National Association of Counties (NACo) to reach out to our
               federal representatives to ask that they oppose the inclusion of the SAVE America Act provisions in the
               FY 2027 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) and in any reconciliation package.
           o Council majority supported moving forward with requesting the auditor write fact only letter to federal
               offices.
   •   Proclamation Request: Stormwater Awareness Week
           o Council supported moving forward with this proclamation request. Chair Marshall volunteered to read.



1|Page
                                                                                           COUNCIL TIME
                                                                                          MEETING MINUTES


                 Council Meetings will be held in a hybrid format, and the public is encouraged to participate.

Councilor Reports
    •   Councilor Little stated he and Chair Marshall attended the Mental Health Sales Tax Advisory Committee where
        they are reviewing proposals from the community, weighing them, interviewing the organizers, and
        anticipating deciding on funding within the next month. Little also stated that in the next couple of days the
        Council will be holding the Comprehensive Plan hearings and encouraged the other Councilors to submit any
        ideas for changes in writing as soon as possible for public to see and comment on.


    •   Councilor Yung requested for Council to consider as a part of the legislative agenda concerning mobile home
        parks the rent cap laws that have gone into effect, and their exception for when a tenant vacates the property
        owner can reset the rent to market rate which causes a decrease in the mobile homes value. Marshall supported
        bringing this back as an agenda item next week. Yung also presented to the La Center City Council at their
        meeting on the ECHO Homelessness Systems Analysis RFP, and La Center has agreed to sign on which means
        every jurisdiction is participating. Yung stated he is looking forward to the work that comes out of that RFP.

Work Session Requests
NONE

Policy Updates
Presented by Jordan Boege, Senior Policy Analyst
    • 2027 Legislative Session
           o Jordan provided information on the legislative priorities during the last session, items that have been
               discussed as potential priorities for the next session and requested to hear from council on their
               potential priorities list.
           o Discussion and Questions were had by Council.
           o Jordan requested Council email any other recommendations to him.

Executive Sessions
Start Time 2:30 pm with the presence of legal counsel. Pending Litigation RCW 42.30.110(1)(i) – 15 minutes – no
after action; Extension 15 minutes until 3:02 pm; Extension 15 minutes until 3:17 pm; Extension 10 minutes until
3:27 pm; Extension 10 minutes until 3:37 pm; End time was 3:37 pm.

ADJOURNED




2|Page
                                                                                              COUNCIL TIME
                                                                                             MEETING MINUTES


                 Council Meetings will be held in a hybrid format, and the public is encouraged to participate.



CLARK COUNTY COUNCIL



Sue Marshall, Chair



Glen Yung, Councilor



Michelle Belkot, Councilor



Wil Fuentes, Councilor



Matt Little, Councilor

ATTEST:

Rebecca Messinger, Clerk to the Council

jg
The audio recording for Board Time meetings can be accessed on the county website (clark.wa.gov/councilors/clark-county-council-
meetings) on The Grid.




3|Page
