                                                                            August 13, 2026


David Perlick, Director
Parks, Recreation & Cultural Services Department
415 W. 6th St.,
Vancouver, WA 98660

RE:      Culture, Arts and Heritage Commission – Legal Services


Dear Mr. Perlick:


       We are pleased to have the opportunity to represent the Culture, Arts and Heritage
Commission of Vancouver ("the Commission" or "you") in the matters described below. This letter
and the enclosed Agreement for Legal Services form our agreement regarding the terms under
which you engage Madrona Law Group.

                                       Scope of Services

        Our engagement will entail acting as general legal counsel to the Culture, Arts and
Heritage Commission of Vancouver, a public development authority. In doing so, we will provide
all necessary legal services to the Commission, including but not limited to:

   •     Serving as legal advisor and providing legal advice and guidance to the Commission and
         its staff.
   •     Preparing and/or reviewing legal documents, policies, and legislation on behalf of the
         Commission.
   •     Providing legal representation in contract negotiations on behalf of the Commission.
   •     Conducting training on legal issues as requested.
   •     Preparing formal opinion letters when requested.
   •     Attending Commission meetings as requested.
   •     Evaluating and recommending when the Commission should initiate a civil action as
         plaintiff and prosecuting the same.
   •     Defending the Commission in litigation as necessary.
   •     Determining and recommending when the Commission requires outside legal counsel to
         provide specialized legal representation.

                                     Conflicts of Interest

        As lawyers, we are of course regulated by ethical rules, including rules governing conflicts
of interest. From time to time, we may represent other clients with interests that are adverse to
yours, but we will not undertake any representation that creates a conflict of interest that is
prohibited under applicable Rules of Professional Conduct. However, in situations where a
conflict arises that may be waived under the applicable Rules, we may ask you and the other

       14205 SE 36th Street, Suite 100 PMB 440, Bellevue, WA 98006 • Tel: (425) 201-5111
                                  www.MadronaLaw.com
affected party(ies) to waive the conflict, in circumstances where we believe we will be able to
provide competent and diligent representation to each affected client, the representation is not
prohibited by applicable law, the representation does not involve the assertion of a claim by one
client against another client in the same litigation or other proceeding before a tribunal; and each
affected client gives informed consent, confirmed in writing.

                                       Fee Arrangement

         Our fees are principally based on hourly rates. For this engagement, we propose that
Rachel Bender Turpin act as lead attorney for the Commission, at a rate of $340 per hour. We
propose that David Linehan act as designated back up at a rate of $360 per hour. We may also
involve other lawyers or staff members as necessary to handle the work efficiently, utilize specific
expertise, and meet deadlines, and their time may be charged at different rates. Hourly rates in
effect for 2026 for all of our attorneys and staff are included in the enclosed Agreement for Legal
Services. These rates reflect the discount off our standard rates we customarily offer to clients for
whom we serve as general counsel.

        As noted in the enclosed Agreement for Legal Services, we review our rates annually, with
adjustments usually taking effect on January 1st. We do not charge for costs incurred internally
(photocopying, long-distance telephone charges, electronic legal research services and the like).
However, to the extent we incur costs from outside vendors directly related to your work, these
costs will be passed through to you without markup. We issue invoices for our fees and any
disbursements on a monthly basis. These invoices include detail that most of our clients find
sufficient, but please let me know at any time if more detailed information is needed on our
invoices.

      We look forward to working with you and thank you for placing your confidence in
Madrona Law Group, PLLC.



                                                           Very Truly Yours,

                                                           Madrona Law Group, PLLC


                                                           Rachel Bender Turpin




                                                 2
