       2027 Annual Budget
          Jail Services
Clark County Council
Work Session Presentation
Wednesday, October 7, 2026 @ 9:00am
Jail Services
2027 Budget Submission at a Glance
2027 Budget Environment
Local jails are the hub of the law and justice system.
Carceral facilities in Washington are required to maintain employee certification
standards and a provide a basic level of security and care to incarcerated persons.
These requirements continue to increase costs for employees, incarcerated persons
and the physical jail facilities.
In the last few years, Clark County has made significant investments in the jail.
Jail Services has applied for and received multiple alternative funding streams to
increase staffing, build a 64-bed jail facility, increase jail beds by reopening previously
closed housing areas and increased/improve in-custody programs.
If Propositions 12 and 13 pass in the November election, several budget requests will
be unnecessary.


Primary Budget Focus for 2027
Jail Services focused 2027 budget requests on on-going employee needs
and the opening of J-Pod, a new 64-bed medium security jail facility.


                                                2027 Annual Budget: Department/Office Budget Requests   2
Jail Services
Key Considerations
Increased operational needs of the aging jail facility
Increased inmate medical/mental health needs
       Basic constitutional care
       Americans with Disabilities Act
       Trueblood Settlement
Increased requirements for local jails
       Jail standards
       National Commission on Corrections Health Care accreditation
Mandatory overtime
       16-hour shifts
       Coverage of required operational posts
       Hospital security
       Required training for all certified Corrections Officers

The proposed budget reduction strategy does not lessen Jail
Services positions. It does significantly reduce departmental
ability to manage most unplanned spontaneous purchase needs.


                                             2027 Annual Budget: Department/Office Budget Requests   3
    Jail Services
    2027 Priority Items for Council Consideration
PRIORITY 1
Estimated Inmate Medical Services Contract Budget Increase
Request: $617,975 | JSD-12-27AD/General Fund/Ongoing
•   Why it matters: Medical care is a significant area of liability and requires appropriate volume of
    medical services and medical professionals.
•   Council consideration: Medical care is required and the jail population is acutely sick, requiring more
    medical staff to provide care.
Increased Medical Coverage for Addition of J-Pod/
Request: $519,840 | JSD-15-27AD/General Fund/Ongoing
•   Why it matters: There are not enough medical staff to provide services for the increased population of
    J Pod and the additional housing location.
•   Council consideration: This is a new 64 bed facility requiring medical coverage at the location.

PRIORITY 2
Training Center Two-Year Project Manager Position
Request: $317,334 | JSD-21-27AD/General Fund
•   Why it matters: Local public safety training locations are closing while the number of certified public
    safety personnel and state training requirements for public safety personnel continue to increase.
•   Council consideration: Clark County has two of the largest public safety agencies (CCJS and CCSO) in
    southwest Washington and appropriate training locations for firearms certifications do not exist.



                                                       2027 Annual Budget: Department/Office Budget Requests   4
