Rebecca Messin er

From:                           noreply@clark. wa.gov
Sent:                           Thursday, September 17, 2026 7:52AM
To:                             Cnty Board of County Councilors General Delivery
Subject:                        Write Your Councilor




EXTERNAL: This email originated from outside of Clark County. Do not click links or open attachments unless
you recognize the sender and know the content is safe.




  T
             \
 w
                 I ^
                    ~.=^                       0

Submitted on Thu, 09/17/2026 - 7:51 AM

Recipients
Sue Marshall, Chair/District5
GlenYung, District 1
Michelle Belkot, District 2
Wil Fuentes, District 3
Matt Little, District 4

Name
Michael Olson


Phone Number
3604335632

Email Address
michael.t. olson@comcast.. net

Address
12200 NE101 st Street
Vancouver, Washington

Subject
Concurrancy

Message
My Neighborhood has become a Thoroughfare for Traffic, dark County Planning approved thousands of
Apartment Units on NE 1 24th Ave. Nowthey use my neighborhoodto bypass the Traffic Lighton NE99th
Street. NE 124th Ave Southbound Traffic is BACKING UP at the NE 99th Street Traffic Light. A RIGHT-
HANDTURN LANEwould alleviate this problem, dark County needs to make the appropriate Traffic
Mitigation Plans with their Building Permitting Process. RESPECT My Neighborhood. Please Reply.

Councilor District
4


Property ID
119592554




©2026 dark County Washington
                                                                          ^^^ pc^ry^^
Rebecca Messin er

From:                              Kathleen Otto
Sent:                              Thursday, September 17, 2026 11:54 AM
To:                                Rebecca Messinger
Subject:                           FW:Tax Parcel # 264360000 - Quinn Granger - Gary Lang - Mobile Home Hardship
                                   Permit application




    fc°UNr>;
  +^~"-sfc
J
         \      s
u

               .n




Kathleen Otto
County Manager

564.397.2458

                    &



From: dark County Citizens United, Inc. <cccuinc@yahoo. com>
Sent: Thursday, September 17, 2026 11:14 AM
To: Michelle Belkot <Michelle. Belkot@clark. wa. gov>; Matt Little <Matt. Little@clark. wa.gov>; Wil Fuentes
<Wil.Fuentes@clark.wa.gov>; Glen Yung <Glen.Yung@clark.wa.gov>; Kathleen Otto <Kathleen.Otto@clark.wa.gov>; Sue
Marshall <Sue. Marshall@clark. wa. gov>,· aglang43@hotmail. com; Carol Levanen <cccuinc(S)yahoo. com>; susan
rasmussen <sprazz@outlook.com>
Subject: Tax Parcel# 264360000- Quinn Granger- Gary Lang- Mobile hlome Hardship Permit application

dark County Council                                                                     September 1 7, 2026
P.O. Box 5000
Vancouver, Washington 98666

FOR THE PUBLIC RECORD

Re: Tax Parcel # 264360000 - Quinn Granger - Gary Lang - Mobile Home Hardship
Permit                   application - May 2026

Dear Councilors,

Mr. Gary Lang has contacted dark County Citizens United, Inc. (CCCU) for help, after attempting to
provide housing via a Hardship Permit for his elderly mother with health issues. But he received no
cooperation from county staff and didn't know where else to turn. He and his wife are sharing the
home with a large family, and his mother is staying in the small RV they used to come here from
Wisconsin five months ago. His mother has now fallen and fractured her hip. Mr. Lang believes if the
county had not delayed the process and he had been able to provide proper housing with the
hardship permit, that injury would not have happened.
After careful research, CCCU agrees with Mr. Lang that the staff's wetland determination was
wrong. You've heard from the Lang family about the many road blocks put up by county agents that
have delayed and prevented permitting of a hardship dwelling for his vulnerable medically
compromised elderly mother. Your attention is needed to critical points raised here as it approaches
five months since the beginning of the permitting process for this application, and it is creating a
safety hazard for this elderly woman.

On September 15, 2026, two CCCU Board members did a site visit to the property where Mr. Lang
temporarily lives with his daughter, the Quinn Granger family, and where he hopes to place a mobile
home hardship dwelling for him, his wife and his mother. One obvious observation was that the
parcel is on very steep ground of 15% to 25% slope, making it difficult to walk. There is a large and
long retaining wall to the North of the house, at the top of the hill, to protect the home. The only flat
areas are where the home is. The bank has been cut out to make a garden and a sandboxfor
children below the house. It would be impossible for any standing water to exist on this parcel as it all
goes swiftly downhill on non-hydric ground. The only place water is retained is in a man-made ditch
on the South property line, which the neighbordug to take his drain water from his lot through a
twelve inch culvert. It's all very obvious and CCCU wonders how it got missed.

The incorrect wetland determination was in the steepest part of the lot on the South, where the
drainage ditch had been dug by the neighbor. In addition, the soil was determined by previous
engineers and septic designers to be non-hydric soil, according to eight soil pits performed by those
professionals. In all their documents, they determined there was no wetland on the site, which was
accepted by county staff and engineers when the house was built in 2017-2018. Staff ignored the
most important legal directive for determining a wetland, and that is the three parameters required by
the Washington Department of Ecology and the Army Corp of Engineers. There must be hydric soil,
predominant wetland vegetation and inundated soil from April to October. None of those parameters
were on this lot. There is no water, no hydric soil and no wetland plants, except in the manmade
ditch, which is exempt under county, state and federal law.

What CCCU sawwas an adjacent lot that had created a stormwater system of rocks and a culvert
that drained the water from their lot into a manmade ditch traveling along the fenceline, East and
West, between the lots. In other words, it was a stormwater conveyance system that includes the
Lang parcel. The fact that it was a dug ditch was very obvious, and it is a mystery as to how county
staff missed that. In addition, the flawed wetland determination infringed onto the area of the septic
drainfield, used by the existing home. On the East of the home a drainfield was engineered to take
the water from the gutters in a series of underground PVC pipes, that drained out onto the
ground. But none of these items can be called a wetland, as they are all exempt according to
law. There is simply no wetland on the property given the very steep slopes, no-hydric soil and no
sign of water or inundated wetland soil. The plants noted on the property are consistent with a
stormwater conveyance system created by the neighbor, and would be comparable to a county ditch.

Mr. Lang met with Brent Davis to discuss his concerns, but it all fell on deafears. Mr. Lang
explained the South property line ditch to Mr. Davis, but it didn't seem to matter. CCCU also attended
the meeting, and it was clear Mr. Davis was defending his staff, even though he was only going by
her two photos, and some maps that cannot be accessed by the public. Those maps were not on
GIS maps or Google maps, but some other kind of map that made everything look like a
wetland. One photo showed a shoveled hole, but when Mr. Lang went to find that hole, it was not on
the lot, and he did not see her dig that hole. The other photo was of the drainage ditch along the
South fenceline, which Mr. Lang explained as to how it got there. We assume she was using that
picture to show wetland plants, but what was in the photo is consistent with the kind of ditch that was
dug to take the water from the neighboring parcel, similar to county road ditches.
CCCU walked the whole parcel, but the steep slope throughout the lot made it very difficult to do. No
wetland could survive such a slope. We did not see any sign of a wetland on the property. But we
did see that the county road above the parcel was draining all its road water onto the parcel. But
because of the slope and soil, the water drained off quickly and traveled to the East and
South. There were no county stormwater conveyance systems along the roadside above this parcel,
to protect the home.

Again, there was no wetland and CCCU believes such a determination must be removed from the
maps and documents. The County Council has the authority to remove any wetland designations
from Parcel # 264360000 and the hardship permit should be issued to Mr. Lang as soon as possible.

Sincerely

Carol Levanen, Exec. Secretary
Susan Rasmussen, President
dark County Citizens United, Inc.
P.O. Box 2188
Battle Ground, Washington 98604


(The following information is the letter Mr. Lang sent to the Council and other research documents
that support their position.)

To whom may concern,

My wife and I are taking care of our 86 year old mother and share the housing with her, in order to be
available.. We are attempting to get a hardship case permit to place a mobile home on our
daughter's five acre property because there is space and our daughter would be able help us. The
first of June we started the permit process for the placement of a mobile home on the land, and paid
two fees of approximately $2500. We were told to contact the Wetlands and hlabitat department to
schedule an appointment for them to come out and let us know if there was a Riparian Habitat and
undetermined stream. My daughter and her husband bought the five acre parcel in 2025 and before
they bought, had contacted dark County Community Development in 2025, to inquire if there were
any wetlands on the property. They were assured there were none. Based on that information, they
bought the property, thinking all was well.

Prior to that, the home on the property was built in 2017. At that time, all permits were properly
acquired and the county had signed off on all of them. Within those items, was a wetland and critical
land permit, which determined a DNR mapped stream. Engineering documents at that time showed a
buffer on both sides of the stream, which was accepted by county agents. There was no mention of
any wetlands on the parcel in that extensive county report.

The house was constructed, based on those documents. We understand that Washington state
vesting rights are good for ten years and believe the land continues to fall into that category. My son
in law started putting in a small secondary driveway for the mobile home , but stopped when he was
told he had to have a permit to do that. We reject the idea from Arial that many changes were made
to the land, s/nce it was purchased in 2025.

We were told to scheduled Ariel to do an on-site visit. The day she arrived, which was the middle of
July, Ben and I met her on site. We took her to the area of the purposed placement site. We watched
her walk the land for approximately five to ten minutes. When she came back, she informed us there
was no reparian habitat and no undetermined stream. Then she informed us that we had a sloped
wetland. She showed us one small plant with a small flower she claimed only grew in wetlands. We
note it was in the area of the storm water infiltration system piped out at the same area as the pipe
for the drain tile pipe from a retaining wall. We then walked up the hill and she said she knew a
neighbor that had a wetland bank and we could buy wetland credits from them for $50. 000. She said
that there was not enough room to place a mobile home and mitigation, and we would have to
change our plans. Arial sent photos claiming wetland infringements, but we believe they are false.

At the time, she determined that we might have to do mitigation and then sent an email describing we
would have to buy credits or do mitigation. This was in the last email we received from her. On
several occasions I tried to reach the county and was told the manager, Brent Davis, would return my
call soon. hie has never responded. No one has responded to anything.

So now my mother in law is living in a small travel trailer on the property, that someone called code
enforcement on, and we are living in a small bedroom in the house along with a large family. We are
unable to provide the care that is needed for our elderly mother. We have an urgent situation here,
and need to place a mobile home on my daughter's five acre property. We need a permit to do that.

We see in the county code, that under 40. 260. 210 Temporary Dwellings, we should be
able to do that. The definitions describe exactly what we need to do. I have copied items
A, 1, 2, 3, for your review.

A. Authorized - Hardshi . Sub'ect to the conditions and u on the issuance of the ermit
 rovided for herein one 1 or more tern orar dwellin s ma be established and
maintained on a lot tract or arcelifthe          arcel is alread   occu ied b one 1 or more
 rinci al dwellin s for use b one 1 ofthefollowin :1. A erson who is to receive from
or administer to a resident of the rinci al dwellin continuous care and assistance
necessitated b advanced a e or infirmit the need for which is documented b a
 h sician's medical statement- or2. A caretaker hired hand or other similar full-time
em lo eeworkin on the lot tract or arcel in connection with an a ricultural or related
use of the remises-or3. Relatives over sixt -two 62 ears of a e with an ad'usted
household    ross income as defined on IRS Form 1040 or its e uivalent which is at or
below fift ercent 50% of the median famil income for dark Count asad'usted who
are related b blood or marria e to a resident of the rinci al dwellin .

 In the beginning, we were told that placing a hardship mobile home on acreage is a
simple, straight forward thing and didn't take long to get a permit. Now, we are in limbo
not of our choosing, and all are living in a housing hardship, more profound than before,
because of Ariel. Our family needs the housing that has been requested in the permit
application and do not believe that Ariel has a right to take that housing away because she
decided to change something that had been legally decided by credentialed county
agents. We cannot order the mobile home until we get the permit, and then it would take
another forty-five days before it is delivered. We started this process the first of June, and
now it is almost September and by the time we get what we need, we will be placing it in
the Fall rains. We ask that our permit be processed as soon as possible under previous
rights and privileges of the parcel.
Since no one from the county will respond to our concerns, we were told to contact dark County
Citizens United, to see what they can find. We have given permission for them to speak on our
behalf if needed in the future. We have attached the medical record confirming the situation we are
requesting.

You can reach us at 360-907-2274

Sincerely,
Gary and Audrey Lang




 htt s://ccdocs. clark. wa. ov/ ortal/a i/Document/9021034

 Page 12-13-14 - engineered maps show the wetland in the septic drainfield and reserve drainfield
areas

 Pages 18-20 Technical Report and Table of Contents

 Pages 21-22 - no wetland present

 Page 24 - Cindar soil determined

 Page 39 - no wetland noted

 Page 80 - soil infiltration notations

 Page 82 - soil test by outside lab

 Pages 85 - 89 - no groundwater

Page 97 - impervious area is 0 - pervious area is 5 (acres)

Page 128 - engineered map of septic and drainage design

Page 129 - Property Information sheet - No wetland mappong indicators          soil - non hydric CrE

htt s:// is. clark.wa. ov/ ishome/Pro ert /? id=findSN&account=264360000

htt s://ccdocs. clark. wa. ov/ ortal/a i/Document/1245620

htt s://ccdocs. clark. wa. ov/ ortal/a i/Document/9085980

There is no indication of a potential wetland on this parcel with the same soil, but it lights up with the
wetland on your parcel when CCCU clicks permitted wetland.

htt s:// is. clark. wa. ov/ma sonline/?site=Environmental&ext=1

The 2023 GIS photos show the fence is on the neighbors land and the space between the fence and
property line has the plants that are on Ariel's photos.
                                                     5
 htt s:// is. clark. wa. ov/ma sonline/?site=Environmental&ext=1

 Environmental

htt s:// is. clark. wa. ov/ ishome/Pro ert /? id=findSN&account=264360000#

CC&Rs

Landmark Web Official Records Search




          Landmark Web Official Records Search




Property Identification Number: 264360000    Ma sOnline       Fact Sheet
Property Type: Real
Property Status: Active
Site Address: 39313 NE 143RD PL, AMBOY, WA 98601 (Situs Addresses)
Abbreviated Description: #15 SEC 23 T5N R2EWM 5. 1 A

Tax Status: Regular

                                                     .   Account
                                                     .   Buildin
                                             .        Environmental
                                                      .   Taxes
                                                 .  udi r Docs
                                             .   Misc Documents
                                                 .   Permits
                                               .   Sales Search


Note: Any document recorded without a parcel number will not be found on this site. For help, please

If you have any questions concerning the data on this page, please contact dark County Auditor's Office.
Main Phone: 564 397-2208, Email: reaard'                    v.


Auditor documents
Number                Date Type              Recorded By          Grantor(s)     Grantee(s)         Excise
6325375               May AFFIDAVIT          SHELYN               GRANGERQUINN, PUBLIC
                      26,                    GRANGER              GRANGER SHELYN
                      2026
6265168               Aug    RECONVEYANCE    First American       FIRST AMERICAN TAPANI MICHELLE,
                      01,                    Mortgage             TITLE INSURANCE TAPANITREVOR
                      2025                   Solutions            COMPANY
6265167               Aug SUBSTITUTION OF First American          HOMEBRIDGE     FIRST AMERICAN
                      01, TRUSTEE         Mortgage                FINANCIAL      TITLE INSURANCE
                      2025                   Solutions            SERVICES INC   COMPANY
6262495               Jul    DEED OF TRUST   VCR                  GRANGER QUINN, QUALITi' LOAN
                      21,                                         GRANGER        SERVICING,
                      2025                                        SHALYN         UNITED
                                                                          WHOLESALE
                                                                          MORTGAGE LLC
6262494          Jul    DEED            VCR              TAPANI           GRANGER QUINN      911075
                 21,                                     MICHELLE,        S, GRANGER
                 2025                                    TAPANITREVOR     SHELYN A
5825954          Nov    SUBSTITUTION OF NATIONWIDE     HOMEBRIDGE         NATIONWIDE TITLE
                 25,    TRUSTEE         TITLE CLEARING FINANCIAL          CLEARING INC
                 2020                   INC.             SERVICES INC
5825955          Nov    RECONVEYANCE    NATIONWIDE       NATIONWIDE       TAPANI MICHELLE,
                 25,                    TITLE CLEARING TITLE CLEARING     TAPANITREVOR
                 2020                   INC.           INC
5802527          Oct    DEED OF TRUST   CHICAGO TITLE    TAPANI           ALDRIDGE PITE
                 13,                    VANCOUVER        MICHELLE,        LLP, HOMEBRIDGE
                 2020                   MALL - 4601 NE   TAPANITREVOR     FINANCIAL
                                        77TH AVE ST                       SERVICESINC
5646647          Sep    SUBSTITUTION OF NATIONWIDE       M&T BANK         WELLS FARGO
                 10,    TRUSTEE         TITLE CLEARING                    NATIONALBANK
                 2019                   INC.                              WEST
5646648          Sep    RECONVEYANCE    NATIONWIDE       WELLS FARGO      TAPANI MICHELLE,
                 10,                    TITLE CLEARING NATIONAL BANK      TAPANITREVOR
                 2019                   INC.           WEST
5637578          Aug    DEED OF TRUST   CHICAGO TITLE TAPANI              ALDRIDGE PITE
                 16,                    FISHERS        MICHELLE,          LLP, HOMEBRIDGE
                 2019                   LANDING        TAPANITREVOR       FINANCIAL
                                                                          SERVICES INC
5555741          Oct    DEED OF TRUST   CHICAGO TITLE    TAPANI           CHICAGO TITLE
                 15,                    FISHERS          MICHELLE,        COMPANY OF
                 2018                   LANDING          TAPANITREVOR     WASHINGTON,
                                                                          M&T BANK
5378328          Feb    DEED            FIDELITYTITLE    BRULEY ARNOLD    TOIVONEN MISTY,    731375
                 17,                    DT VANCOUVER     D, BRULEY RANDI TOIVONEN Ti'LER
                 2017                                    s

5378329          Feb DEED               FIDELITY TITLE   TOIVONEN MISTf, TAPANI MICHELLE, 761028
                 17,                    DT VANCOUVER     TOIVONENTYLER TAPANI TREVOR
                 2017
5233517          Nov    PARTIAL RELEASE CLARK COUNTY     CLARK COUNTY     BRULEY ARNOLD D,
                 18,                    TREASURER        ASSESSOR,        BRULEY RANDI S
                 2015                                    CLARK COUNTY
                                                         TREASURER
5202167          Aug    CONTRACT        CHICAGO TITLE    BRULEY ARNOLD TOIVONEN MISTr', 731375
                 11,                    FL VANCOUVER     D, BRULEY RANDI TOIVONEN TfLER
                 2015                                    s

4633439          Jan    DEED            RANDIBRULEY      BRULEY ARNOLD    BRULEY ARNOLD D, 647247
                 08,                                     D                BRULEY RANDI S
                 2010
4625612          Dec DEED               ARNOLD BRULEY BRULEY ARNOLD       BRULEY ARNOLD ,    646176
                 09,                                     D                BRULEY RANDI S
                 2009
3641596          May COVENANTS,         STEWART TITLE    BRULEY ARONOLD PUBLIC
                 21, CONDITIONS &                        D, BRULEY RANG
                 2003 RESTRICTIONS                       S, DAYBREAK
                                                         HOMES INC
  Landmark
  Web Official
  Records
  Search
3288928                 Feb    DEED                 RICK                        BRULEY PAULFTTE
                        08,                         POMERVILLE                  K EST BY PR
                        2001




Property Identification Number: 264360000       Ma sOnline               Fact Sheet
Property Type: Real
Property Status: Active
Site Address: 39313 NE 143RD PL, AMBOY, WA 98601 (Situs Addresses)
Abbreviated Description: #15 SEC 23 T5N R2EWM 5. 1 A

Tax Status: Regular

                                                            .   Account
                                                            .   Building
                                                    .        Environmental
                                                                 . Taxes
                                                        .        Auditor Does
                                                .           >.
                                                            .      Permits
                                                        .        Sales Search


If you have any questions about a specific document, please contact the County department that is listed
to the left of the document. Contact information can be found on each de artment's web a e.


Documents


                                      Image
Dept             Doc Type             Link    Name                              Date         Description
Community
                 CD - Permit          PDF                                       09/06/2018 PERMIT
Development
Public Health    PHOS - As-Built      PDF                                       12/20/2017
Public Health    PHOS - Checklist     PDF                                       12/14/2017
                 PHOS-
Public Health                         PDF                                       11/28/2017
                 Agreement
                 PHOS - Plot Plan-
Public Health                         PDF                                       10/02/2017
                 Map
Public Health    PHOS - WAVE          PDF                                       10/02/2017
                 PHOS - Analytical
Public Health                         PDF                                       09/30/2017
                 Data
                 PHOS-
Public Health                         PDF                                       09/28/2017
                 Application
                 PHOS - Release
Public Health
                 Letter
                                      PDF                                       09/09/2017
Public Health    PHOS - Well Log      PDF                                       04/12/2017
Public Health    PHOS - Well Log      PDF                                       04/12/2017
Public Health    PHOS - Checklist     PDF                                       04/11/2017
Public Health    PHOS - Permit        PDF                                       04/11/2017
Public Health    PHOS - Design        PDF                                       03/16/2017
                 PHOS - Plot Plan-
Public Health                         PDF                                       03/14/2017
                 Map
                 PHOS-
Public Health                         PDF                                       03/06/2017
                 Application
                     PHOS-
 Public Health                           PDF                            05/17/2016
                     Application
                     PHOS - Plot Plan-
 Public Health                           PDF                            01/01/2016
                     Map
 Public Health       PHOS - Design       PDF                            09/10/2015
                     PHOS-
 Public Health                           PDF                            05/22/2015
                     Application
                     PHOS - Analytical
 Public Health
                     Data
                                         PDF                            05/22/2015
 Community           CD - Staff Report   PDF                            08/15/2013
 Development         / Decision
                     PHOS - Analytical
 Public Health
                     Data
                                         PDF                            04/13/2007
 Public Health       PHOS - Checklist    PDF                            04/11/2007
                     PHOS - Plot Plan-
 Public Health                           PDF                            03/20/2007
                     Map
                     PHOS-
 Public Health                           PDF                            03/20/2007
                     Application


 Noted in the Stormwater Site Checklist

... Roof drains route to X2 50' Infil trenches per BMP Detail

 .. Other hard surfaces/driveways route to Infil trench per BMP/Detail

Singed by Inspector Signature, dated 8/21/18

Permit Number: 2017-03527 File Number: 2001229

Page 29 of 142: (bottom)

EngineeringNorthwest PLLC

Minimum Requirements ff9 - Wetland Protection

The project will not have an impact on any downstream wetlands. Runnofffrom the driveway and roof areas
will be effectively dispersed, or infiltrated, before entering the downstream system. There are no known
wetland areas in close proximity to the site

Page 22 of 142:

EngineeringNorthwest PLLC

3. Describe, discuss and identify the following for the project site:

  5/opec/ 3%-14% checked                  Steep 15%+ checked

Are sensitive and or critical areas present on the site? The information may be found on Clark County Maps
Online.


Habitat is checked                 Steep slopes are checked
                                                         9
In the east of the site, dark County GIS shows that there is Riparian Habitat

Conservation Area that extends onto the property. This area will not be impacted by the proposed
development. This Riparian Habitat Conservation Area has been shown in the plan set and will be identified
and protected in the field with the installation of high visibility construction fencing. (See Plan Sheets 2 &3 for
location).


On July 17, 2017 Brent Davis did a wetland and critical land determination and it was accepted,
according to the county building inspection records. The entry is at the end of these inspections.

htt s:// is. clark.wa. ov/ ishome/Pro ert /viewslnfo/? id= ermitProcess&PermitNumber=NHC-2017-
03527

htt s:// is. clark. wa. ov/ ishome/Pro ert /viewslnfo/index.cfm? id= ermitProcess&PermitNumber=M
BH-2026-00108

htt s:// is. clark. wa. ov/ ishome/Pro ert /viewslnfo/? id= ermitProcess&PermitNumber=ENG-2026-
00252

htt s:// is. clark. wa. ov/ ishome/Pro ert /viewslnfo/? id= ermitProcess&PermitNumber=ADS-2025-
02343

 July, 31,      Enter Permit
                               Submit
                                            Enter Permit
                                                                 DM
 2017           Application                 Application

 September,     Perform                     Perform Erosion
                                                                 BRA
                               Accepted
 08, 2017       Review                      Control Review

 December,      Request                     Request
                               Requested                         PUser
 27, 2017       Inspection                  Inspection

 December,      Request                     Request              PUser
                               Requested
 27, 2017       Inspection                  Inspection

 December,      Request                     Request
                               Requested                         PUser
 10, 2017       Inspection                  Inspection

 December,      Request                     Request
                                                                 PUser
                               Requested
 04, 2017       Inspection                  Inspection

 March, 13,     Perform                     Building - Final
                               Cancelled                         PUser
 2018           Inspection                  Plumbing

                                                                         Corrections as Follows - 1. Obtain dark
                                                                         county health department final approval
                                                                         Remove paint from painted shut louvers
 March, 19,     Perform                    Building - Building
 2018
                               Failed                            BCC     around house 3. Seal all gaps in garage
                Inspection                 Completion
                                                                         ceiling around ducting 4, Man door to
                                                                         garage needs to be self closing and self
                                                                         latching

 November,      Perform                    Building - Rough      JEB
                               Cancelled
 07, 2017       Inspection                 Plumbing

 August, 25,    Perform                    Perform Building
                               Accepted                          MJB
 2017           Review                     Plan Review

 August, 23,    Perform                    Perform Geotech
                               Accepted                          MJB
 2017           Review                     Review

                                                           10
                                             Perform Public
  October, 04,      Perform                  Health Water        JME
                                 Accepted
  2017              Review
                                             Review

                                             Perform
  July, 31,         Perform
                                 Accepted    Wetland/Habitat     BHD
  2017              Review
                                             Review

                                                                       Corrections as Follows - Corrections as
                                                                       Follows: 1) Install infiltration trenches per
  October, 30,
                                 Failed                          GEG   plan 2) Recall storm water inspection when
  2017
                                                                       low point and infiltration trenches are
                                                                       installed.




The fake wetland infringes on the septic drainfield. The contractor would not put a drainfield in a
wetland.

 htt s://ccdocs. clark. wa. ov/ ortal/a i/Document/9021034


Subject: me naire - ek - septic - maps

 htt s://ccdocs. clark. wa. ov/ ortal/a i/Document/1377348

htt s://ccdocs. clark. wa. ov/ ortal/a i/Document/1377339

htt s://ccdocs. clark. wa. ov/ ortal/a i/Document/1377340

Ma sOnline dark Count WA. GIS.


    MapsOnline, dark County WA. GIS.

htt s:// is. clark. wa. ov/ma sonline/?site=Environmental&ext=1

Ma sOnline dark Count WA. GIS.

Property fact sheet has been tampered with.

Pro ert Fact Sheet for 264360000


              Property Fact Sheet for 264360000




When we started this process, the property fact sheet said no wetland presence, now it says there is
wetland. The same is true regarding the GIS map.



                                                            11
 Local governments typically use specific criteria to determine wetland status, including the presence
of hydric soils, hydrophytic vegetation, and hydrology. These criteria help assess whether an area
qualifies as a wetland under regulatory frameworks such as the Clean Water Act.

Criteria for Wetland Determinations


Understanding the criteria used for wetland determinations is essential for compliance.

    .      Hydric Soils - Wetlands must contain soils that are saturated or flooded long enough to
        develop anaerobic conditions, indicating wetland characteristics.
    .   Hydrophytic Vegetation - The presence of plant species adapted to wet conditions is a key
           indicator of wetlands.
    .      Hydrology - Wetlands must exhibit hydrological conditions that support the presence of
        water at or near the surface for a significant part of the growing season.
    .   Regulatory Frameworks - Local governments often follow guidelines set by federal laws, such
        as the Clean Water Act, to ensure consistency in wetland determinations.




Wetland Guidance for Critical Areas Ordinance (CAO)
Updates Western and Eastern Washington Shorelands and Environmental Assistance Program
Washington State Department of Ecology Olympia, Washington

October 2022, Publication #22-06-014

htt s://a      s. ecolo   -wa. ov/ ublications/documents/2206014   df

Definition of wetlands

 In designating wetlands for regulatory purposes, the GMA specifies the definition of wetlands as
follows:

 "Wetland" or "wetlands" means areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or ground
water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do
support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands
generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas. Wetlands do not include those artificial
wetlands intentionally created from non-wetland sites, including, but not limited to, irrigation and
drainage ditches, grass-lined swales, canals, detention facilities, wastewater treatment facilities, farm
ponds, and landscape amenities, or those wetlands created after July 1, 1990, that were
unintentionally created as a result of the construction of a road, street, or highway. Wetlands may
include those artificial wetlands intentionally created from non-wetland areas created to mitigate
conversion of wetlands. (RCW 36-70A-030[31]30)

 Wetlands are subject to a local government's regulatory authority if they meet the criteria in this
definition. This includes non-federally regulated wetlands (sometimes referred to as isolated


                                                     12
wetlands). The GMA requires local governments to designate and protect wetlands and grants them
the authority to do so-regardless of federal jurisdiction.

Wetland delineation

 State laws require that wetlands protected under the GMA and the Shoreline Management Act
(SMA) be delineated using the U. S. Army Corps of Engineers' (Corps) manual (U. S. Army Corps of
Engineers, 1987) that is adopted into statute (RCW 36-70A-175; 31 RCW 90-58-38032

 The regional supplements are used in conjunction with the federal delineation manual. To maintain
consistency between the state and federal delineation of wetlands, Ecology updated the regulations
(WAC 173-22-03533) to state that delineations shall be done according to the currently approved
federal manual and regional supplements. Therefore, the currently approved federal manual and
applicable regional supplements (Western Mountains Valleys and Coasts, Arid West, or both) must
be used for delineating wetlands in GMA jurisdictions, and local governments should refer to
this requirement in their CAOs

   .   Local Control: Local governments often have discretion in their CAOs to exempt certain
       artificial, non-compensatory wetlands from development restrictions.

       Washington State Department of Ecology (. gov) +4
It is essential to contact local planning departments, as they hold authority over critical areas
ordinances CAOs




RCW 49. 60. 2235 Unfair practice to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or
interfere regarding secured real estate transaction rights.

       It is an unlawful practice to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any person
in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having exercised or enjoyed, or
on account of his or her having aided or encouraged any other person in the exercise or
enjoyment of, rights regarding real estate transactions secured bv
RCW 49. 60. 030, 49. 60. 040, and 49. 60. 222 through 49. 60. 224



RCW 49. 60. 224 Real property contract
provisions restricting conveyance, encumbrance, occiipa icy, or use to
persons of particular race, disability, etc., void-Unfair practice.

      (1) Every provision in a written instrument relating to real property which purports to
forbid or restrict the conveyance, encumbrance, occupancy, or lease thereof to individuals
                                                    13
of a specified race, creed, color, sex, national origin, citizenship or immigration status, sexual
orientation, families with children status. honorably discharged veteran or military status, or
with any sensory, mental, or physical disability or the use of a trained dog guide or service
animal by a person who is blind, deaf, or physically disabled, and every condition, restriction,
or prohibition, including a right of entry or possibility of reverter, which directly or indirectly
limits the use or occupancy of real property on the basis of race, creed, color, sex, national
origin, citizenship or immigration status, sexual orientation, families with children status,
honorably discharged veteran or military status, or the presence of any sensory, mental, or
physical disability or the use of a trained dog guide or service animal by a person who is
blind, deaf, or physically disabled is void.



AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT OF 1990 1 [Public Law
101-336; Enacted July 26, 1990] [As Amended Through Public
Law 113-287, December 19, 2014]
SEC. 3. 042 U. S. C. 12102^, DEFINITION OF DISABILITY. As used in this Act: (1) DISABILITY-
The term "disability" means, with respect to an individual- (A) a physical or mental impairment that
substantially limits one or more major life activities of such individual; (B) a record of such an
impairment; or (C) being regarded as having such an impairment (as described in paragraph (3)).
(2) MAJOR LIFEACTIVITIES- (A) IN GENERAL-For purposes of paragraph (1), major life
activities include, but are not limited to, caring for oneself, performing manual tasks, seeing, hearing
eating, sleeping, walking, standing, lifting, bending, speaking, breathing, learning, reading,
concentrating, thinking, communicating, and working

42 U. S. Code Chapter 45 - FAIR HOUSI G
 The Fair Housing Act protects seven classes from discrimination in housing: race, color, national
origin, religion, sex, familial status, and disability. These protections influence local regulations by
requiring compliance with federal standards, thereby promoting inclusive housing practices and
preventing discriminatory policies at the local level.

Protected Classes and Their Impact on Local Regulation

Understanding these classes is crucial for local housing policies.

   .   Protected Classes - The Fair Housing Act includes race, color, national origin, religion, sex,
       familial status, and disability as protected categories.
   .   Local Compliance - Local regulations must align with federal protections to avoid
       discrimination.
   .   Enforcement Mechanisms - Violations can lead to significant fines and legal actions against
       landlords and local governments.

                                                     14
   .   Community Impact - These protections foster diverse and inclusive communities by ensuring
       equal access to housing.

The FHA prohibits discrimjnation on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status,
and national origin in the sale or rental of housing, housing financing, and brokerage services. The
FHA applies to a broad assortment of housing, both public and private, including single-family
homes, apartments, condominiums, and mobile homes. 6 The Act's coverage extends to "residential
real estate-related transactions,

 When local regulations are overly restrictive and violate the Fair Housing Act (FHA), they can lead to
legal challenges, potential lawsuits against municipalities, and increased scrutiny from federal
agencies. Such regulations may disproportionately affect marginalized groups, limiting their access
to housing and contributing to systemic discrimination.

Consequences of Restrictive Local Regulations

Restrictive local regulations can have significant implications for housing access and legality.

   .   Legal Action - The U. S. Department of Justice can initiate lawsuits against local governments
       for violating the FHA.
   .   Increased Scrutiny - Municipalities may face heightened federa oversight and pressure to
       amend discriminatory practices.
   .   Housing Disparities - Restrictive zoning can exacerbate housing shortages, particularly for
       low-income and marginalized communities.
   .   Financial Penalties - Local governments may incur costs related to legal fees and potential
       settlements.
   .   Community Impact - Such regulations can lead to social and economic segregation, limiting
       diversity in neighborhoods.

When local regulations violate the Fair hlousing Act, municipalities may face legal challenges,
including lawsuits and federal intervention. Such violations can lead to penalties, mandated changes
in policies, and potential loss of federal funding for housing programs.

Violations of the Fair Housing Act can have significant repercussions.

   .   Legal Action - Individuals or groups can file lawsuits against municipalities for discriminatory
       practices.
   .   Federal Oversight - The Department of Justice may intervene to enforce compliance with the
       Fair Housing Act.
   .   Financial Penalties - Municipalities may incur civil penalties for violations, which can be
       substantial.


                                                    15
       Policy Changes - Courts may mandate changes in local zoning or land use policies to ensure
       compliance.
       Loss of Funding - Violating the Act can result in the loss of federal housing funds




Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) regulations elaborate upon and provide
illustrations of covered housing practices. 9 The illustrations include engaging in the following
activities on the basis of an individual's race, color, religion, sex, disability, or familial status:

. refusing to sell or rent a dwelling;10

. refusing to provide services or facilities in connection with the sale or rental of a dwellingil 1

 engaging in conduct that makes dwellings unavailable;! 2 . steering individuals toward or away from
housing; 13

. advertising or publishing discriminatory notices with regard to the selling or renting of a dwelling;14

. misrepresenting the availability of a dwelling; 15

 Federal law provides various protections for vulnerable elder adults in housing, primarily through the
Fair Housing Act and the Elder Justice Act. These laws prohibit discrimination and address issues of
abuse and neglect, ensuring that older adults have access to safe and appropriate housing options.

Key Protections for Elder Adults in Housing

Understanding the federal protections available for elder adults is crucial.

   .   Fair Housing Act - This act prohibits discrimination in housing based on age, ensuring equal
       access to housing for older adults.
   .   Elder Justice Act - Enacted in 2010, this act addresses abuse, neglect, and exploitation of
       older adults, providing a framework for their protection.
   .   Housing for Older Persons Act - This law allows for age-restricted housing, ensuring that
       communities can cater specifically to older adults.
   .   Public Housing Regulations - These regulations allow public housing agencies to designate
       housing specifically for elderly families, ensuring they have priority access.
   .   Accessibility Requirements - Federal laws mandate that housing must be accessible to
       individuals with disabilities, including older adults

Home/State laws and rules / WACs /Title 365 / Cha ter 365-190 / Section 365-190-090


                                                       16
365-190-080 « 365-190-090 » 365-190-100

WAC 365-190-090 Wetlands.

A enc filin saffectin this section

      (1) The wetlands of Washington state are fragile ecosystems that serve a number of
important beneficial functions. Wetlands assist in reducing erosion, siltation, flooding,
ground and surface water pollution, and provide wildlife, plant, and fisheries habitats.
Wetlands destruction or impairment may result in increased public and private costs and
property losses.

      (2) In designating wetlands for regulatory purposes, counties and cities must use the
definition of wetlands in RCW 36. 70A. 030. Counties and cities are requested and
encouraged to make their actions consistent with the intent and goals of "protection of
wetlands, " Executive Orders 89-10 and 90-04 as they existed on September 1, 1990.
Additionally, counties and cities should consider wetlands protection guidance provided by
the department of ecology, including the management recommendations based on the best
available science, mitigation guidance, and provisions addressing the option of using wetland
mitigation banks.

      (3) Wetlands rating systems. Wetland functions vary widely.

      (a) When designating wetlands, counties and cities should use a rating system that
evaluates the existing wetland functions and values to determine what functions must be
protected.

      (b) In developing wetlands rating systems, counties and cities should consider using
the wetland rating system developed jointly by the department of ecology and the United
States Army Corps of Engineers.

      (c) If a county or city chooses to use an alternative rating system, it must include the
best available science.

      (d) A rating system should evaluate, at a minimum, the following factors:

      (i) Wetlands functions and values;

      (ii) Degree of sensitivity to disturbance;

      (iii) Rarity;

     (iv) The degree to which a wetland contributes to functions and values of a larger
ecosystem. Rating systems should generally rate wetlands higher when they are well-
                                                   17
connected to adjacent or nearby habitats, are part of an intact ecosystem or function in a
network of critical areas: and

      (v) The ability to replace the functions and values through compensatory mitigation.

      (4) Counties and cities may use the National Wetlands Inventory and a landscape-
scale watershed characterization as infonnation sources for determining the approximate
distribution and extent of wetlands. The National Wetlands Inventory is an inventory
providing maps of wetland areas according to the definition of wetlands issued by the
United States Department of Interior Fish and Wildlife Service. A landscape-scale
watershed characterization may identify areas that are conducive to forming wetlands
based on topography, soils and geology, and hydrology. Regardless, any potential locations
of wetlands should be confirmed by field visits, either before or as part of permitting
activities, and identified wetlands should have their boundaries delineated for regulation
consistent with the wetlands definition in

       RCW36. 70A.030. Definitions

(53) "Wetland" or "wetlands" means areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water
or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated
soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas.
Wetlands do not include those artificial wetlands intentionally created from nonwetland
sites, including, but not limited to, irrigation and drainage ditches, grass-lined swales, canals,
detention facilities, wastewater treatment facilities, farm ponds, and landscape amenities, or
those wetlands created after July 1, 1990, that were unintentionally created as a result of
the construction of a road, street, or highway. Wetlands may include those artificial
wetlands intentionally created from nonwetland areas created to mitigate conversion of
wetlands.

(5) Counties and cities must use the methodology for regulatory delineations in the
adopted state manual identified in

RCW36. 70A. 175

RCW 36. 70A. 175 Wetlands to be delineated in accordance with
manual.

       Wetlands regulated under development regulations adopted pursuant to this
chapter shall be delineated in accordance with the manual adopted by the department
pursuant to

      RCW 90. 58. 380.

                                                18
RCW 90. 58.380 Adoption of wetland manual.
      The department by rule shall adopt a manual for the delineation of wetlands under
this chapter that implements and is consistent with the 1987 manual in use on January 1,
1995, by the United States army corps of engineers and the United States environmental
protection agency. If the corps of engineers and the environmental protection agency adopt
changes to or a different manual, the department shall consider those changes and may
adopt rules implementing those changes.

[ 1995 c 382s 11.]

58. 17.010 « 58. 17.020 » 58. 17.030

RCW 58. 17. 020 Definitions.
(1) "Binding site plan" means a drawing to a scale specified by local ordinance which: (a)
Identifies and shows the areas and locations of all streets, roads, improvements, utilities,
open spaces, and any other matters specified by local regulations; (b) contains inscriptions or
attachments setting forth such appropriate limitations and conditions for the use of the land
as are established by the local government body having authority to approve the site plan;
and (c) contains provisions making any development be in conformity with the site plan.

 (3) "Clear and objective design and development standards" means locally adopted
development regulations that involve no personal or subjective judgment by a public official,
and are ascertainable by reference to measurable written or graphic criteria available and
knowable to the permit applicant, the public, and public officials prior to submittal.

 In Washington State, a binding site plan approved in 2017 would typically remain vested for a period
of time, allowing the developer to proceed under the regulations in place at the time of approval.
However, specific vesting periods can vary based on local ordinances and the nature of the project,
so it's essential to consult local regulations for precise details.

Binding Site Plan Vesting Details

Understanding the vesting of binding site plans is crucial.

   .   Vesting Period - Generally, binding site plans are vested for a specific duration, often allowing
       developers to proceed under the regulations in effect at the time of approval.
   .   Local Regulations - The exact vesting period can vary by jurisdiction, so local ordinances
       should be reviewed for specific timelines.
   .   Approval Conditions - If the binding site plan meets all conditions and is approved, it typically
       remains valid unless significant changes in law occur.
   .   Extensions and Modifications - Developers may seek extensions or modifications, but these
       are subject to local government approval
                                                    19
From: Alisha Lang<langalisha85@gmail.com>
Sent: Friday, 21 August 2026 14:08:25
To: aglang43@hotmail.com <aglang43@hotmail.com>
Subject: Fwd: Hardship Permit Request

 -.-- Forwarded message ---

From: Brent Davis <Brent. Davis clark.wa. ov>
Date: Fri, Aug 21, 2026 at 13:45
Subject: Re: Hardship Permit Request
To: Alisha Lang <lan alisha85         mail. com>
CC: April Furth <ADril. Furth(5)clark. wa. gov>

(email from Brent Davis)

Alisha,

 / apologize for not responding to earlier inquires. My understanding is that the proposed hardship is located
outside likely wetlands and wetland buffersthat we have identifiedon the property, CCCU notes: How was
Ariel authorized to go on the land and determine a wetland, when she was only asked to go
there to confirm a DNR stream? That stream was deterined in a prior development review,
which claimed there was no wetland on the property. In addition, there is no hydric soil to
support wetland plants and water inundated soil, all part of the required three parameters to
determine a wetland. There was no wetland permit request to authorize her to do that. but that
there has been clearing and grading to construct access to the proposed placement site that has not been
permitted and may not be able to be permitted without modification, restoration, and mitigation. I am not aware
to the seasonal stream issue, but I am going to look into that further.

(email sent from Arial,)

"Quinn,

If the prior property owner graded portions of the wetland and wetland buffer without the appropriate
permits, then unfortunately you inherit those violations. CCCU notes: The former owner was fully approved
for the development he performed in 2017, and complied with all permits. No wetland was determined
during and after that developement was performed. / acknowledge that portions of the wetland buffer
consisted of Armenian blackberry which can be removed since it is considered invasive: however
the exemption for this does not include clearing as a result of ground-disturbing equipment which is the case
here. Based on review of aerial imagery CCCU notes: photos are not how one is supposed to determine
a wetland, according to federal, state and local laws. fsee below) it appears that the ground-disturbance,
clearing and grading has primarily occurred after you purchased the property in 2025. If you wish to contest
whether or not there are any wetlands on the property then you will need to provide documentation, such as a
wetland delineation, from a qualified professional for consideration. If you wish to appeal the case, then I will
need to issue a decision for you to formally appeal.

The Wetland and Habitat code requires avoidance and minimization of impacts, which means that if there are
viable alternatives on site that can avoid or would have less impact, then an alternative with more impact
cannot be permitted. There may be alternatives on the site that need to be explored and may result in
changesto the proposed plans. "



                                                        20
CCCU notes: No wetland permit was submitted, and there should not have been any wetland
determination made for this hardship permit of a mobile home.

"There is a lot to go over with this application and the path to resolving the question of unpermitted activity, so
I'd like to set up a time next week for a call or meeting (remote or in-person). I am available Monday at 9 or 11,
Tuesday at 11, or Wednesday afternoon."

 If one of these times works, please let me know when and what type of meeting you prefer and I will confirm
1st thing Monday morning.

(email sent from Ariel,)

 "As discussed during Tuesday's site visit, the site does not contain a stream or riparian habitat; however, there
/s a s/ope wetland on the site and within the proposed project area. CCCU notes: the parcal has no hydric
soil and consists of bedrock according to county records. 77?e wetland has already been impacted due to
unauthorized placement of a rock road, and additional unauthorized grading and clearing on the site. CCCU
notes: There is already an existing road driveway to the site, which was permitted in 2017. The
grading that occurred was for an access driveway for the mobile home placement, near the existing
house. He only moved about 75 cubic yards of soil that was originally dirt moved from where
the house is now. When he moved the dirt off the hill side and pushed it to where it is now,
there were stumps and branches from trees removed from the home site. Stumps and
branches were removed before flattening it out and bringing in rock.. / have attached a map which
shows the approximate extent of the wetland onsite and the estimated wetland impacts. The wetland rated as
a Category III wetland with a habitat score of 6 points which is afforded a 75' low land use intensity buffer. The
road (as it currently exists) and the proposed mobile home would result in approximately 230 square feet of
direct wetland impacts and 18, 245 square feet (. 419 acres) of indirect wetland impacts. Note that the direct
wetland impacts are likely more than estimated but I could not confirm most portions of the wetland where the
road had already been installed. All other portions of the cleared and graded wetland/wetland buffer will be
required to be replanted and restored I'm not sure there would be enough room to mitigate onsite so in the
event that onsite mitigation is insufficient purchase of mitigation bank credits would be required. Impacts to
CAT III wetlands require a 1:1 ratio in the form of bank credit purchase with a . 5 reduction ratio applied to
indirect wetland impacts. This would amount to . 215 credits. Last I checked the cost of a credit at the East Fork
LewisWetland Mitigation Bank was $235, 000 so this would equate to ~ ^50, 525. Ifyou wish to reduce the
amount of mitigation required then the plans should be revised to move the driveway and mobile home out of
the wetland and wetland buffer.

CCCU notes: It is mpossible to determine a formal wetland via a photo. All of this descriptive
language could not have occurred, given the short time Ariel was on the property. There is no wetland,
according to formal county records, and therefore the grading permit requirements apply and any
wetland language removed from the 2026 records.

/n dark County, a grading permit is not required if the amount of dirt moved is less than 500 cubic yards.
However, if the project involves critical lands or exceeds certain thresholds, additional permits may be
necessary.

Grading Permit Requirements

Understanding the specifics of grading permits is essential.

   .   Volume Limit - A grading permit is not needed for projects moving less than 500 cubic yards of
       dirt.

                                                        21
Critical Lands - If the project involves critical lands like wetlands or floodplains, other permits
may jbe required regardless of volume.
    Erosion Control - An erosion control permit is necessary if more than 500 square feet of ground
/'s disturbed.
    Dust Control - A Dust Control Permit is required if grading exceeds a quarter acre



.      ADA Title II: State and Local Governnient Activities


. Title II covers all activities of State and local governments regardless of the government
entity's size or receipt of Federal funding. Title II requires that State and local governments give
people with disabilities an equal opportunity to benefit from all of their programs, services, and
activities (e. g. public education, employment, transportation, recreation, health care, social
services, courts, voting, and town meetings).

.   State and local governments are required to follow specific architectural standards in the
new construction and alteration of their buildings. They also must relocate programs or
otherwise provide access in inaccessible older buildings, and communicate effectively with
people who have hearing, vision, or speech disabilities. Public entities are not required to take
actions that would result in undue financial and administrative burdens. They are required to
make reasonable modifications to policies, practices, and procedures where necessary to avoid
discrimination, unless they can demonstrate that doing so would fundamentally alter the
nature of the service, program, or activity being provided.

. Complaints of title II violations may be filed with the Department of Justice within 180 days
of the date of discrimination. In certain situations, cases may be referred to a mediation
program sponsored by the Department. The Department may bring a lawsuit where it has
investigated a matter and has been unable to resolve violations. For more information, contact:

.   U. S. Department of Justice
Civil Rights Division
950 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W
Disability Rights Section
Washington, D. C. 20530
800-514-0301 (voice)
1-833-610-1264 (TTY)
ADA. ovTitle II may also be enforced through private lawsuits in Federal court. It is not
necessary to file a complaint with the Department of Justice (DOJ) or any other Federal agency,
or to receive a "right-to-sue" letter, before going to court.

.      Fair Housing Act

. The Fair Housing Act, as amended in 1988, prohibits housing discrimination on the basis of
race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status, and national origin. Its coverage includes
                                               22
private housing, housing that receives Federal financial assistance, and State and local
government housina. It is unlawful to discriminate in anv aspect of selling or renting
housing or to deny a dwelling to a buyer or renter because of the disability of that
individual, an individual associated with the buyer or renter, or an individual who intends to live
in the residence. Other covered activities include, for example, financing, zoning practices, new
construction design, and advertising.

. The Fair Housing Act requires owners of housing facilities to make reasonable exceptions in
their policies and operations to afford people with disabilities equal housing opportunities. For
example, a landlord with a "no pets" policy may be required to grant an exception to this rule
and allow an individual who is blind to keep a guide dog in the residence. The Fair Housing Act
also requires landlords to allow tenants with disabilities to make reasonable access-related
modifications to their private living space, as well as to common use spaces. (The landlord is
not required to pay for the changes. ) The Act further requires that new multifamily housing
with four or more units be designed and built to allow access for persons with disabilities. This
includes accessible common use areas, doors that are wide enough for wheelchairs, kitchens
and bathrooms that allow a person using a wheelchair to maneuver, and other adaptable
features within the units.


. Complaints of Fair Housing Act violations may be filed with the U. S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development. For more information or to file a complaint, contact:

.    Office of Compliance and Disability Rights Division
Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity
U. S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
451 7th Street, S.W., Room 5242
Washington, D. C. 20410
(800) 669-9777 (voice)
(800) 927-9275 (TTY)
htt s: www.hud. ov ro ram offices fair housin e ual o            disabilit main

.  For questions about the accessibility provisions of the Fair Housing Act, contact Fair
Housing Accessibility FIRST at:

.   (888)341-7781 (voice/TTY)
htt s: www. hud. ov     ro ram offices fair housin    e ual o    accessibilit   first home


.   For publications, you may call the Housing and Urban Development Customer Service
Center at:


.   (800) 767-7468 (voice/relay)

. Additionally, the Department of Justice can file cases involving a pattern or practice of
discrimination. The Fair Housing Act may also be enforced through private lawsuits.

                                            23
       .   Issue: Local Laws, Ordinances, and Regulations

       .   Common Problem:


       . City governments may fail to consider reasonable modifications in local laws, ordinances,
       and regulations that would avoid discrimination against individuals with disabilities.

       .   Result:


       .   Laws, ordinances and regulations that appear to be neutral often adversely impact
       individuals with disabilities. For example, where a municipal zoning ordinance requires a set-
       back of 12 feet from the curb in the central business district, installing a ramp to ensure access
       for people who use wheelchairs may be impermissible without a variance from the city. People
       with disabilities are therefore unable to gain access to businesses in the city.

. City Zoning
City zoning policies were changed to permit this business to install a ramp at its entrance.

       .   Requirement:

      . City governments are required to make reasonable modifications to policies, practices, or
      procedures to prevent discrimination on the basis of disability. Reasonable modifications can
      include modifications to local laws, ordinances, and regulations that adversely impact people
      with disabilities. For example, it may be a reasonable modification to grant a variance for
      zoning requirements and setbacks. In addition, city governments may consider granting
      exceptions to the enforcement of certain laws as a form of reasonable modification. For
      example, a municipal ordinance banning animals from city health clinics may need to be
      modified to allow a blind individual who uses a service animal to bring the animal to a mental
       health counseling session. 28 C. F. R. §§ 35. 130(b)(7) and 35. 136.

dark County Council                                                           August 20, 2026

dark County Manager

Brent Davis

P.O. Box 5000

Vancouver, Washington 98666



Re: htt s://e-
docs. clark. wa. ov/LandmarkWeb/search/DocumentB ?Ke =Assessor&bookt              e=OR&ClerkFileNum
ber=6325375



                                                      24
From: Gary Lang <aglang43@hotmail. com>
Sent: Wednesday, 02 September 2026 21:41:15
To: Gary Lang<aglang43@hotmail.com>
Subject: Re: CCCU will need the amount of dirt removed for the driveway




Quinn and I have figured that he only moved about 75 cubits yards of soil. The dirt he moved was
originally dirt moved from where the house is now. He said when he moved the dirt off the hill side
and pushed it to where it is now there were stumps and branches from trees they had push off the
home site. He removed the stumps and branches before flattening it out before bringing rock in for
the road. If you need more information give me a call.



From: JenniferWann-Harbison<JCpermitting@hotmail.com>
Sent: Friday, July 10, 2026 1:24:08 PM
To: Quinn Granger <quinnsgranger@gmail.com>
Cc: Gary Lang <AGLANG43@HOTMAIL. COM>
Subject: wetland/habitat

Quinn,,

Here is the county comment. I think it's best to have them do the site visit and add the fee to the permit. You
will need to give them permission and stated in this comment.

 There is a DNR mapped Type Ns (seasonal) stream and riparian habitat mapped on this parcel and within the
proposed development location. A site visit is required in order to verify stream/riparian habitat presence and
to determine if the proposed development will result in any impacts to regulated habitat areas. The site visit
may be completed in one of the following two options:

1). You may apply for a wetland predetermination by following these online instructions:
https://clark. wa.gov/5ites/default/files/media/document/2023-07/WHR-application-submittal.pdf The costfor
o predetermination is $1, 530for areas up to 5 acres and an additional$92per acre thereafter.
2). You may opt to have a $544 site visitfee addedonto an building permit underactive review. Ifyou choose
this option we will need explicit consent from the property owner to access the property for the purpose of
wetland verification. If you chose this option you can email me directly at ariel. whitacre@clark. wa. gov

Thanks/

Jennifer Wann-Harbison

JC Permitting

360-624-1880

From: Alisha Lang <lan alisha85   mail. com>


                                                         25
Sent: Thursday, August 20, 2026 9:27 PM
To: Michelle Belkot <Michelle. Belkot clark. wa. ov>; Glen Yung <Glen.Yun clark.wa. ov>; Matt Little
<Matt. Little^clark. wa. oov>; will. fuentes clark. wa. sov Sue Marshall <Sue. Marshall clark. wa. ov>; Kathleen Otto
<Kathleen.Otto clark. wa. ov>; Brent Davis<Brent.Davis dark.wa. ov>
Subject: Hardship Permit Request

EXTERNAL:This email originated from outside of Clark County. Do not click links or open attachments unless you recognizethe
sender and know the content is safe.


To whom it may concern,

Attached, please find two letters providing reasoningfor the hardship permit request. Please contact Gary & Audrey Lang
as soon as possible regarding this matter, as it is of the utmost importance that this matter is resolved quickly.

Sincerely,


AlishaLang(daughterofGary& Audrey 202603 2 5_1 64606.JPQ

             Section 40. 260. 205




             Section 40.260.220



     A. Authorized - Hardship. Subject to the conditions and upon the issuance of the permit provided
     for herein, one (1) or more temporary dwellings may be established and maintained on a lot, tract, or
     parcel if the parcel is already occupied by one(1) or more principal dwellings, for use by one(1) ofthe
     following:

             1. A person who is to receive from or administer to a resident of the principal dwelling,
             continuous care and assistance necessitated by advanced age or infirmity, the need for which is
             documented by a physician's medical statement; or

             2. A caretaker, hired hand or other similarfull-time employee working on the lot, tract or parcel
             in connection with an agricultural or related use of the premises; or

             3. Relatives over sixty-two (62) years of age with an adjusted household gross income, as
             defined on IRS Form 1040 or its equivalent, which is at or below fifty percent (50%) of the median
             family income for dark County (as adjusted), who are related by blood or marriage to a resident
             of the principal dwelling;

             4. Withinthe forest and agricultural districts (Section 40. 210, 010) only

               a.   Relatives; or

               b. A purchaser of the lot, tract, or parcel if a seller who is at least sixty (60) years of age has
               retained a life estate to occupythe principal dwelling as a primary residence.

(Amended: Ord. 2017-07-04; Ord. 2025-07-01)
                                                              26
B. Conditions. Temporary dwellings authorized herein shall be subject to the following minimum
conditions:

    1. The lot, tract or parcel shall be of such size and configuration, and the temporary dwelling
    shall be located in such a manner as to enable compliance with such zoning and subdivision
    regulations as would be applicable but for the authorization of this section; provided, that:

       a. One (1) temporary dwelling may be approved for each authorized permanent dwelling, if
       the tract or parcel of which it is a part is either-

              (1)   One (1) acre or larger in size; or

              (2) Able to comply with the residential density standards forthe applicable zoning district
              with the addition of the temporary dwelling(s). For example, the addition of one (1)
              temporary dwelling on a ten thousand (10, 000) square foot lot in the R1-5 zoning district
              with one (1) existing dwelling.

       b. Within the agriculture and forest districts (FR-80, FR-40, AG-20):

              (1) The additional dwelling(s) private well and septic system shall be located where they
              will minimize adverse impacts on resource land;

              (2) If practical, the temporary dwelling shall be located within two hundred (200) feet of
              the principal dwelling.

       c. The temporary dwelling shall be a temporary structure such as a manufactured or modular
       home designed, constructed and maintained in a manner which will facilitate its removal at
       such time as the justifying hardship or need no longer exists; provided, that either:

              (1) The additional dwelling authorized by Section 40. 260.210(A)(4)(b) need not be a
              temporary structure if the declaration required by Section 40. 260. 210(C)(1)(e) includes a
              covenant obligating the purchaser or successors to remove or otherwise decommission
              the existing dwelling upon the death or permanent change in residency of the seller
              retaining a life estate; or

              (2) The applicant is constructing a new dwelling and converting the existing dwelling to
              temporary use for the requested hardship and records a covenant obligating the owner
              or successors to remove or otherwise decommission the converted dwelling upon
              cessation of the hardship.

    2. A current vehicular license plate, if applicable, shall be maintained on the temporary dwelling.

    3. No more than one (1) temporary dwelling shall be authorized under this chapter if the
    primary dwelling is a manufactured or modular home.

    4. Upon cessation of the hardship or need justifying the temporary dwelling permit, either such
    dwelling shall be removed or the owner of the lot, tract or parcel shall comply with all applicable
    zoning subdivision requirements.


                                                     27
(Amended: Ord. 2016-06-12; Ord. 2017-07-04; Ord. 2018-10-02; Ord. 2025-07-01)

    C.   Permits.

         1. Applications for a single temporary dwelling permit shall be subject to a Type I review process
         pursuant to Section 40. 510. 010. Applications shall be accompanied by a processing fee
         established for manufactured or modular home placement permit, and shall include:

            a. A site plan showing the size and boundaries of the lot, tract or parcel; the location of all
            existing buildings; and the proposed location of the temporary dwelling;

            b. A description of the proposed temporary dwelling;

            c. Documentation of approval of water supply and sewage disposal system by the
            appropriate governmental agency;

           d. Statement signed by the applicant describing the hardship or need; provided, that if the
           applicant is relying upon Section 40. 260. 210(A)(1), a letter from a medical doctor verifying the
            need for continuous care and assistance shall also be submitted;

           e. A declaration to be filed with the County Auditor upon approval of the application setting
           forth the temporary nature of the dwelling.

         2. Applications seeking approval for two (2) or more temporary dwellings on the same lot, tract
         or parcel are subject to conditional use permit approval as set forth in Section 40. 520. 030.

         3. A temporary dwelling permit shall be valid for two (2) years, and may be renewed by the
         issuing body for successive two (2) year periods upon written substantiation by the applicant to
         the continuing hardship or need justification. Upon the expiration of the two (2) year period, or
         at the end of each successive two (2) year period(s), if granted, the applicant shall notify the
         responsible official in writing that the temporary dwelling has been removed and, further, said
         notice shall include a request for an inspection to determine that the temporary dwelling has, in
         fact, been removed in compliance with the permit.

(Amended: Ord. 2018-10-02;Ord. 2025-07-01)

    D.   Revocation.


     In addition to any other remedies provided for by law, violation of permit conditions, standards of this
  chapter, or other applicable land use requirements, including the provisions of Chapter 9. 24 of the Clark
  County Code, shall constitute grounds for revocation of a temporary dwelling permit. Such revocation
  may be ordered following a public hearing by the clearing Examiner, whose decision shall be final unless
  a timely appeal is filed with the Superior Court.

(Amended: Ord. 2009-10-19)

From: Quinn Granger <quinnsgranger@gmail.com>



                                                     28
Sent: Monday, 17 August 2026 17:38:31
To: cccuinc@yahoo. com <cccuinc@yahoo. com>; Gary Lang <aglang43@)hotmail. com>
Subject: Fwd: MBH-2026-00108

 Good evening,

 I would like to forward you the majority of the conversation of emails regarding the Habitat review for my property at
39313 NE 143rd Place, Amboy, Wa 98601. My Father In-law Gary Lang and I are trying to get a hardship permit for
putting a home on my property beforewinter. It's been a difficult and challenging process. I'vevisited with several people
from the area since we moved here a year ago. I was told that it should only take a couple weeks to get the permit. It's
been at least a few months.

What would you suggest that we can do to move forward?

Do we need to hire another biologist to get a second report on the wetland area?

I recently visited with a friend who told me that he had the same issue. hie hired another person who had a completely
different report on his property. The county ended up throwing out their report.

We don't know what to do to proceed with this. We're already running low on money and the project isn't even close to
completion yet.

Any help would be greatly appreciated.

Thanks,

Quinn

        - Forwarded message

From: Quinn Granger <quinnsgranaer@Qmail.com>
Date: Wed, Aug 5, 2026 at 7:28PM
Subject: Re: MBH-2026-00108
To: Ariel Whitacre <ariel.whitacre clark.wa. ov>, <wetlandhabitatreview clark.wa. ov>
CC: Benjamin Cruz <rainriverstormwatersolutions        mail. com>, Jennifer Wann-Harbison <JC ermittin         hotmail. com>,
Gary Lang <aolanci43(5).hotmail.com>


Good evening Ariel,

 I told you that I had started the driveway and stopped the work after I found out that a permit is needed. As far as the
recent trails cleared in the woods, I did that after you requested that if it's not cleared out enough for you, then you would
have to reschedule. I was hoping everything was cleared out to your satisfaction.

When I purchased the property there were supposedly no wetlands on the property. I spoke to someone in the county
office and they said that just a riparian habitat and an unnamed creek were on the property.

Blackberries covered at least 90 percent of the area. I cleared the blackberries and sprayed the starts with crossbow to try
and get rid of the blackberries.

It was my understanding that the site visit was to see how much we could clear in the habitat area for putting a homefor
my in-laws and my wife's grandmother.

It was determined that there is no unnamed creek or riparian habitat area during the site visit.

The cost of the wetland credit statement is way too much for us to be able to move forward with this.

                                                              29
 By the looks of the buffer zone it looks like I wouldn't be able to put a shop/garage or anything else on the property

 Thanks,

Quinn Granger

On Wed, Aug 5, 2026 at 11:41 AM Ariel Whitacre <Ariel. Whitacre clark. wa. ov> wrote:

Quinn,

If the prior property owner graded portions of the wetland and wetland buffer without the appropriate permits, then
unfortunately you inherit those violations. I acknowledge that portions of the wetland buffer consisted of Armenian
blackberry which can be removed since it is considered invasive; however the exemption for this does not include clearing
as a result of ground-disturbing equipment which is the case here. Based on review of aerial imagery (see below) it
appears that the ground-disturbance, clearing and grading has primarily occurred after you purchased the property in
2025. If you wish to contest whether or not there are any wetlands on the property then you will need to provide
documentation, such as a wetland delineation, from a qualified professional for consideration. If you wish to appeal the
case, then I will need to issue a decision for you to formally appeal.

 From: Quinn Granger <auinnsgranger@gmail. com>
Sent: Thursday, July 30, 2026 5:47 PM
To: Ariel Whitacre <Ariel.Whitacre clark. wa. ov>
Cc: Benjamin Cruz <rainriverstormwatersolutions        mail. com>; JenniferWann-Harbison<JC ermittin          hotmail. com>;
GaryLango lan 43 hotmait. com>
Subject: Re: MBH-2026-00108

Good afternoon Ariel,

 I was hoping that I could have been home for the onsite visit, but we had an emergency pipe repair in an intersection of
downtown Vancouver. I had called my father in-law and told him that I wouldn't be able to make it.

 I would like to meet you onsite and show you where the dirt was already at when we purchased the property. The whole
hillside was covered with blackberries 6-10' high. The wetland area is located downhill from the septic drainage system of
the 4-bedroom home. There is an iron filter that regenerates frequently. This introduces large amounts of water to the
wetland mapped area. The top area of the wetland is where the rain drains all drain out. There is also an area drain that
comes out of the hillside below the sand box. This is in the approximate center of the wetland area. All of the soil piles
along the south property line are from the neighbor to the south having a ditch dug and the dirt placed uphill on my
property to make sure that the runoff of the hill wouldn't cross his property. He also placed a fence without surveying.

I just recently had my property surveyed. The ditch is approximately 10-15' onto my property and the fence is 5'. This was
done when the previous owners were here. I cleared out the blackberries, but the dirt piles are mostly in place yet. This
has created a water dam. I can surely level off the rest of the dirt piles and everything will dry up.

Please let me know if it works for you to schedule a time to meet up with me and I can show you exactly what was there
when we moved here.

As far as the driveway, I just moved here from Wisconsin about a year ago. A real estate agent told me that I didn't need a
permit to build a driveway. I found out that I did need a permit after I had already built what you have seen. I immediately
stopped working on the driveway

Thanks,

Quinn

On Thu, Jul 30, 2026 at 1:27 PM Ariel Whitacre <Ariel. Whitacre     clark. wa. ov> wrote:

Good afternoon,
                                                             30
As discussed during Tuesday's site visit, the site does not contain a stream or riparian habitat; however, there is a slope
wetland on the site and within the proposed project area. The wetland has already been impacted due to unauthorized
placement of a rock road, and additional unauthorized grading and clearing on the site. I have attached a map which
shows the approximate extent of the wetland onsite and the estimated wetland impacts. The wetland rated as a Category
Ill wetland with a habitat score of 6 points which is afforded a 75' low land use intensity buffer. The road (as it currently
exists) and the proposed mobile home would result in approximately 230 square feet of direct wetland impacts and 18,245
square feet (. 419 acres) of indirect wetland impacts. Note that the direct wetland impacts are likely more than estimated
but I could not confirm most portions of the wetland where the road had already been installed. All other portions of the
cleared and graded wetland/wetland buffer will be required to be replanted and restored. I'm not sure there would be
enough room to mitigate onsite so in the event that onsite mitigation is insufficient purchase of mitigation bank credits
would be required. Impacts to CAT III wetlands require a 1:1 ratio in the form of bank credit purchase with a .5 reduction
ratio applied to indirect wetland impacts. This would amount to . 215 credits. Last I checked the cost of a credit at the East
Fork Lewis Wetland Mitigation Bank was $235, 000 so this would equate to ~ $50, 525. If you wish to reduce the amount of
mitigation required then the plans should be revised to move the driveway and mobile home out of the wetland and
wetland buffer.

Ben, I have attached shapefiles in this email as well. The driveway shown on the previous plot plan does not match what
has been installed which is also much wider due to the large rock.

Ariel Whitacre she/her/hers
Biologist
COMMUNITYDEVELOPMENT
564.397.4714

From: Benjamin Cruz <rainriverstormwatersolutions        mail. com>
Sent: Tuesday,July 28, 2026 8:38AM
To: Ariel Whitacre <Ariel. Whitacre   clark. wa. ov>
Cc: Quinn Granger <quinnsgranger@gmail. com>; Jennifer Wann-Harbison <JC ermittin             hotmail.com>; Gary Lang
<a lan 43      hotmail. com>
Subject: Re: Site visit

Thank you. See you soon

Ben Cruz


Rain River Stormwater Solutions


PO Box 852

Ridgefield, WA 98642

(360) 553-8725

RainRiverStormwaterSolutions      mail. corn

On Tue, Jul 28, 2026 at 8:29 AM Ariel Whitacre <Ariel.Whitacre clark. wa. ov> wrote:

Good morning,

I expect to be at the site around 10:15/10:30.This is only an estimate.

Ariel Whitacre she/her/hers
Biologist
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

564.397.4714

                                                             31
From: Quinn Granger <quinnsgranger@gmail.com>

Sent: Friday, July 24, 2026 3:57 PM
To: Ariel Whitacre <Ariel.Whitacre clark. wa. ov>
Cc: Benjamin Cruz <rainriverstormwatersolutions          mail. com>; JenniferWann-Harbison<JC ermittin           hotmail. com>;
GaryLango lan 43 hotmail. com>
Subject: Re: Site visit

 Ok. That sounds good.

 On Fri, Jut 24, 2026 at 8:53 AM Ariel Whitacre <Ariel.Whitacre clark.wa. ov> wrote:

I have another site visit in Washougalthat morning and I am waiting to hear back from another applicant in Washougal to
see if I can complete their site visit that morning as well but have not heard back from them yet. If it is just the 1 site visit
beforehand, I estimate I could be there around 10:30 or 11:00 AM. If there is another site visit then it would be closer to
12:00ish. I can send you an email Tuesday morning or when I hear back from the other applicant to give you a closer
timeline.

 Ariel Whitacre she/her/hers
Biologist
COMMUNITYDEVELOPMENT
564.397.4714

From: Quinn Granger <quinnsgranger@)gmail.com>
Sent: Thursday, July 23, 2026 5:36 PM
To: Ariel Whitacre <Ariel. Whitacre    clark. wa. ov>
Cc: Benjamin Cruz <rainriverstormwatersolutions         mail. com>; Jennifer Wann-Harbison <JC ermittin          hotmail. com>;
Gary Lang <aglang43@hotmail. com>
Subject: Re: Site visit

 I think next Tuesday morning would be fine. Whattime would work best for you?

On Thu, Jul 23, 2026 at 8:41 AM Ariel Whitacre <Ariel. Whitacre         clark. wa. ov> wrote:

I am planning on conducting site visits this Tuesday. I am out of the office this coming Friday. Your presence is not
required but please confirm Tuesday is acceptable and let me know if there are any special access instructions. Also, it
looks like there is a good amount of blackberry on the site. I would recommend clearing a couple paths to where the
mapped stream is located because if the blackberry is too thick to navigate then this would potentially need to be
rescheduled after clear access is provided.

 Please also note that with summer temperatures regularly in the mid-SOs and higher, I typically do not conduct fietdwork
in the late afternoon depending on the temperature that day

Ariel Whitacre she/her/hers
Biologist
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

564.397.4714

From: Benjamin Cruz <rainriverstormwatersolutions          mail. com>
Sent: Thursday, July 23, 2026 8:38 AM
To: Ariel Whitacre <Ariel. Whitacre    clark. wa. ov>
Cc: Quinn Granger <quinnsgranBer(S)gmail. com>; Jennifer Wann-Harbison <JC ermittin              hotmail. com>; Gary Lang


                                                               32
<a lan 43       hotmail. com>
Subject: Re: Site visit

Thanks for checking, that this is correct on the MBH #

Ben Cruz


Rain River Stormwater Solutions


PO Box 852

Ridgefield, WA 98642

(360) 553-8725

RainRiverStormwaterSolutions      mail. com

On Thu, Jul 23, 2026 at 8:32 AM Ariel Whitacre <Ariel.Whitacre clark.wa. ov> wrote:

Ben,

ENG-2026-00253 is for a separate property but I do believe MBH-2026-00108 is correct.


Ariel Whitacre she/her/hers
Biologist
COMMUNITYDEVELOPMENT
564. 397.4714

From: Benjamin Cruz <rainriverstormwatersolutions        mail. com>
Sent:Thursday,July 23, 2026 8:25AM
To: Ariel Whitacre <Ariel. Whitacre   clark. wa. ov>
Cc: Quinn Granger<auinnsgranger@gmail.com>;JenniferWann-Harbison<JC ermittin              hotmail.com>; Gary Lang
<a lan 43       hotmail.com>
Subject: Re: Site visit

Hi Ariel,

This is related to ENG-2026-00253 associated with the building permit MBH-2026-00108. I believe a site visit has been
added to this permit to verify the environmental area.

Thankyou

Ben Cruz


Rain River Stormwater Solutions


PO Box 852

Ridgefield, WA 98642

(360) 553-8725

RainRiverStormwaterSolutions      mail. corn

                                                            33
On Thu, Jul 23, 2026 at 8:19AM Ariel Whitacre <Ariel. Whitacre clark.wa. ov> wrote:

Quinn,

Please provide a permit number, address or parcel number for what this is related to.

Ariel Whitacre she/her/hers
Biologist
COMMUNITYDEVELOPMENT
564. 397.4714

From: Quinn Granger <guinnsgranger@gmail.com>
Sent: Wednesday,July 22, 2026 7:49 PM
To: Ariel Whitacre <Ariel. Whitacre    clark. wa. ov>
Cc: Jennifer Wann-Harbison<JC ermittin          hotmail. com>; Benjamin Cruz <rainriverstormwatersolutions            mail. com>;
Gary Lang<aglang43(5)hotmail.com>
Subject: Site visit

EXTERNAL: This email originated from outside of Clark County. Do not click links or open attachments unless you recognize the
sender and know the content is safe.


Good evening Ariel,

I would like to schedule a site visit for active review of the hardship case permitting.

Friday afternoons would work best for my schedule.

Please let me know when it works out for you.

Thanks,

Quinn Granger




                                                                34
 Rebecca Messin er

 From:                            Kathleen Otto
 Sent:                            Wednesday, September 23, 2026 4:05 PM
 To:                              Rebecca Messinger
 Subject:                         FW:Inappropriate conduct by dark County Staffwithin county agencies




       ^VMTy
       .




 »*         '.^
 v             "If
                 s.
                  .




                      z
                  ft




Kathleen Otto
County Manager

564.397.2458

                          ^



From: dark County Citizens United, Inc. <cccuinc@yahoo.com>
|Sent: Wednesday, September 23, 2026 3:50 PM
To: Michelle Belkot <Michelle. Belkot@clark. wa.gov>; Matt Little <Matt. Little@clark. wa. gov>; Wil Fuentes
<Wil. Fuentes@clark. wa. gov>; Glen Yung <Glen. Yung@clark. wa. gov>; Sue Marshall <Sue. Marshall@clark. wa. gov>;
Kathleen Otto <Kathleen. 0tto@clark. wa. gov>
Subject: Fw: Inappropriate conduct by dark County Staff within county agencies



EXTERNAL: This email originated from outside of Clark County. Do not click links or open attachments unless
you recognizethe sender and know the content is safe.


dark County Council                                                             September23, 2026
P. O. Box 5000
Vancouver, Washington 98666

FOR THE PUBLIC RECORD

Re: Inappropriate conduct by dark County Staff within county agencies

The membership of dark County Citizens United (CCCU), Inc. has repeatedly expressed concerns over the lack
of communications with county staff and behaviors regardingtheir actions when permitting rural
development. Staff have repeatedly demonstrated apparent incompetence, misconduct, lack of respect for
private property rights and for the health and well being of those that are most vulnerable. They are
subjecting people to undue personal and monetary risk. CCU's membership has been astounded at what we
have witnessed.
    .   Violations of trespass are rampant.
    .   Collusion with GISstaff has corrupted county and state maps.
    .   Expert reports written for critical areas, made by qualified professionals which landowners are
        obligated to consult, are routinely overridden and excluded by staff.
    .   The level of disregard for the laws regardingstate and federal Categorical Exemptions is common
        practice.
    .   The elimination of historical development documents and determinations after three years, critical to
        present day permitting, fails to allow transparent government decision making
    .   The disregard for the safety, health and welfare of the citizens is outrageous.

CCCU has highlightedcase examples of egregiousstaffviolations targeting rural property owners. They are
sent out as testimony to the elected officials and indexed in the Public Record as we find them. It is important
for Clark County citizensto knowjust how erroneously county staffconductsthe businessof rural permitting.

Without question, the most egregious attempt to circumvent the law is how the county colluded with
extremist organizations to shape public policy and institute regulatory actions that go directly against CCCU's
Superior Court Ruling, the Poyfair Remand. The Remand said, in part, the county cannot put a cap (limit) on
rural growth.

Over the past several years, CCCU hastestified and submitted into the public record, suspected illegal
activities used in the process for rural permits. We are seeing historical permitting documents for rural
developments being eliminated after 3 years. RCW 42. 56 and 42. 56. 030 Public Records Act and RCW 40. 14.
requires retention of all public records submitted to any public agencyfor all forms of communications. What
CCCU sees are maps being rewritten/ improper critical area designations, ill-informed staff reports and faulty
and fabricated designations. Staffappearsto be driven by some unauthorized ideology ratherthan by science
and the laws. Even more problematic, they fail to correspond with the citizens.

The contempt for the people, for their safety, health and welfare, the public state laws, and transparency is
alarming. CCCU continues to question those that set county policy . We continue to monitor public records
after it was discovered that staff had destroyed or deleted substantive publictestimony by CCCU's
membership.

The staff needsto learn howto make ethical choices as there are many reasonsto do so. The records of
CCCU'stestimony showone egregious example after anotherof violations oftrespass, faulty and flawed data
used in determinations, open flouting of state and federal laws for categorical exemptions, and a patent
disregard for human safety. Public health and safety need to have elevated stature, and rank above
environmental concerns. This alone shows a general disdain for the public in the county's permitting
processes. There is more than enough evidence of misconduct.

Sincerely,

Susan Rasmussen, President

Clark County Citizens United, Inc.
P. O. BOX 2188
Vancouver, Washington 98604
Rebecca Messin er

From:                                   Rebecca Messinger
Sent:                                   Wednesday, September 30, 2026 8:49 AM
To:                                     Kathleen Otto
Subject:                                RE: County Staff must follow the three wetland laws - water, plants and soil



I'll add to the record. Thankyou!




Rebecca Messinger
Clerk to the Council
COUNTYMANAGER'SOFFICE

Phone:564-397-4305
Email: Rebecca.Messin er clark.wa. ov




From: Kathleen Otto <Kathleen.0tto@clark.wa.gov>
Sent: Wednesday, September 30, 2026 8:42 AM
To: Rebecca Messinger <Rebecca.Messinger@clark.wa.gov>
Subject: FW: County Staff must follow the three wetland laws - water, plants and soil




/"\

Kathleen Otto
County Manager

564.397.2458


                 IE3




From: dark County Citizens United, Inc. <cccuinc ahoo.com>
Sent: Tuesday, September 29, 2026 6:06 PM
To: Kathleen Otto <Kathleen.Otto clark. wa. ov>; Wil Fuentes<Wil.Fuentes clark.wa. ov>; Matt Little
<Matt. Little clark.wa. ov>; Michelle Belkot<Michelle. Belkot clark.wa. ov>; Glen Yung <Glen.Yun clark.wa. ov>;
Sue Marshall <Sue.Marshall      clark. wa. ov>
Subject: County Staff must follow the three wetland laws - water, plants and soil
EXTERNAL: This email originated from outside of Clark County Do not click links or open attachments unless
you recognize the sender and know the content is safe.


FOR THE PUBLIC
RECORD                                                                                     dark County
Council
.
 0. Box 5000         Vancouver, Washington
98666                                                         September 29, 2026


Re:County Staff must follow the three wetland laws - water, plants and soil

Washington Department of Ecology - Shoreline ManagementAct - Wetland definition rules.

Dear Councilors,

dark County Citizens United, Inc. (CCCU) knows that the Washington Department of Ecology has
numerous documents describing what is expected of each county, when they create their Stormwater
Management Plan. Within those documents, the DOE describes what a wetland is, and that definition
is to be used by counties and staff as they determine a wetland at the local level. But that is not
happening here in dark County, Washington.

The Shoreline Management Act has a definite description of what a wetland is and what a wetland
isn't. But county staff are not using this definition, or any definition at all. Instead they make one up
as they go along, for every permit application, dark County Staff have gone rogue, and write laws as
they go along, knowing that they wield great power with these flawed decisions that control a
project. Often they wait until the project has begun, before they regulate it to such a degree that the
cost to the landowner becomes unbearable They are going outside their jurisdictional bounds, which
is controlled by these state laws. When a county staff performs this way, the County Manager must
step in and stop those illegal actions. It is the Manager's responsibility to protect the public from this
kind of treatment.

The following Washington state regulations are what county staff is to adhere to, and they cannot
stray from these directives. CCCU has never seen staff follow these rules in all of the projects that
we have encountered. Something has got to change. The following are the rules that govern a
wetland. A staff can fabricate all sorts of text to argue the matter, but the law is very clear about what
the definition of a wetland is, and what it is not. The simple guidelines of water, soil and plants should
be enough.

Sincerely

Carol Levanen, Exec. Secretary

dark County Citizens United, Inc.
P. O. Box 2188
Battle Ground, Washington 98604
Department of Ecology

State wetland regulations

   Proposed state waters and wetlands permit program
We regulate wetlands in Washington state regardless of federal jurisdiction. Wetlands are
protected and managed through multiple state laws, including the state Water Pollution
Control Act and the Shoreline Mana ement Act. The State Environmental Polic Act SEPA
process identifies potential wetland-related concerns early in the environmental review
and permitting process. Additionally, we have authority to review and approve projects
under Section 401 of the federal Clean Water Act.



Shoreline                anagement

RCW 90. 58.030
Definitions and concepts.
(h) "Wetlands" means areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or
groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated
soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas.
Wetlands do not include those artificial wetlands intentionally created from nonwetland
sites, including, but not limited to, irrigation and drainage ditches, grass-lined swales, canals,
detention facilities, wastewater treatment facilities, farm ponds, and landscape amenities, or
those wetlands created after July 1, 1990, that were unintentionally created as a result of
the construction of a road, street, or highway. Wetlands may include those artificial
wetlands intentionally created from nonwetland areas to mitigate the conversion of
wetlands.

WAC 365-190-030

Definitions.

(24) "Wetland" or "wetlands" means areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water
or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated
soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas.
Wetlands do not include those artificial wetlands intentionally created from nonwetland
sites, grass-lined swales, canals, detention facilities, wastewater treatment facilities, farm
ponds, and landscape amenities, or those wetlands created after July 1, 1990, that were
unintentionally created as a result of the construction of a road, street, or highway.
However, wetlands may include those artificial wetlands intentionally created from
nonwetland areas to mitigate conversion of wetlands, if permitted by the county or city.


Washington State Forest Practice Rules
Wetland Definition

For the purposes of the Forest Practice Rules, "wetland" means those areas that are inundated or
saturated by surface or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and under
normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated
soil conditions, such as swamps, bogs, fens, and similar areas. This includes wetlands created,
restored, or enhanced as part of a mitigation procedure.

This does not include constructed wetlands or the following surface waters of the state intentionally
constructed from wetland sites: Irrigation and drainage ditches, grass lined swales, canals,
agricultural detention facilities, farm ponds, and landscape amenities."

 Explicit in this definition is the consideration of three environmental parameters: hydrology, soil,
and vegetation. Observable evidence of all three parameters normally is present in wetlands.

 As referred to in the definition of wetlands, "constructed wetlands" means those wetlands voluntarily
developed by the landowner. Constructed wetlands do not include wetlands created, restored, or
enhanced as part of a mitigation procedure or wetlands inadvertently created as a result of current or
past practices including but not limited to: road construction, landing construction, railroad
construction or surface mining


Corps of Engineers wetlands delineation manual
Assessment of the Indicators

Hydrophytic Vegetation

1. Did the lower community pass the current basic test for hydrophytic vegetation (i. e., >50% of the
dominants had an indicator status of FAC or wetter, excluding FAC-)? _Yes _No

Hydric Soil

1. Did both methods find indicators of hydric soil in the lower community?     _Yes _No a) List those
from the Manual with current guidance:

Wetland Hydrology
1. Did both methods determine that wetland hydrology was present in the lower community?
(Requires 1 primary indicatoror 2 secondary indicators. )_Yes_No


An area is classified as a wetland if it meets three key parameters: hydrology, hydric soils, and
hydrophytic vegetation. These criteria ensure that the area is inundated or saturated with water,
supports specific types of soil, and has vegetation adapted to wet conditions.

Key Parameters of Wetlands

Understanding these parameters is crucial for wetland identification.
  . Hydrology - The area must be inundated or saturated with water for a significant part of the
       growing season.
   .   Hydric Soils - The soil must be classified as hydric, indicating it is formed under conditions
       of saturation.
   .   Hydrophytic Vegetation - The vegetation must consist predominantly of species that thrive
       in saturated soil conditions.




dark County Citizens United, Inc. P. O. Box 2188 Battle Ground, Washington 98604 E-Mail
cccuinc    ahoo.com
Rebecca Messin er

From:                             Kathleen Otto
Sent:                             Sunday, October 4, 2026 12:58 PM
To:                               Rebecca Messinger
Subject:                          Fw:WHR-2023-00271 - Parcel # 230790000 Wetland and Habitat Review Type I Staff
                                  Report




    ^^- ^
?




Kathleen Otto
County Manager

564.397.2458




From: dark County Citizens United, Inc. <cccuinc@yahoo. com>
Sent: Saturday, October 3, 2026 9:20 PM
To: Robert Osborne <Robert.Osborne@clark.wa.gov>; Michelle Belkot <Michelle. Belkot@clark.wa.gov>; Wil Fuentes
<Wil. Fuentes@clark. wa. gov>; Matt Little <Matt. Little@clark. wa.gov>; Glen Yung <Glen. Yung@clark. wa. gov>; Sue
Marshall <Sue. Marshall@clark. wa.gov>; Kathleen Otto <Kathleen. 0tto@clark. wa. gov>
Subject: WHR-2023-00271- Parcel # 230790000Wetland and Habitat ReviewType I StaffReport



EXTERNAL: This email originated from outside of dark County. Do not click links or open attachments unless
you recognize the sender and know the content is safe.


October 3, 2026

Robert
Osborne                                                                                                          Clar
k County Council
P. O. Box 5000
Vancouver, Washington 98666

FOR THE PUBLIC RECORD
Re: WHR-2023-00271 - Parcel # 230790000 Wetland and Habitat Review Type I Staff Report
and         Decision for Leah and Jason Higgins, 17416 NE 299th Street, Yacolt,
Washington 98675

Dear Mr. Osborne and Councilors,


dark County Citizens United, Inc. (CCCU) was forwarded a recent Higgins Code Enforcement notice
from dark County, Washington, regarding a wetland buffer. Although they are retaining an attorney,
CCCU believes an explanation to Code Enforcement is in order. Leah hliggins, approved this email
to Robert Osborne and the Council, so that the information can be thoroughly reviewed. It is only fair
for the county to have an opportunity to reconsider. But in that consideration, the severe
disability and housing needs of Derrik Higgins must be at the forefront of any review.


In June of 2023, Derrik hliggins, a young sixteen year old lad, was marking line for a construction
company, using a trencher. When he stopped the machine and stepped to the side, to assure he was
in alignment, the ground gave way under his foot making him lose his balance, hie was thrown in
front of the turning trencher blades. As he watched one of his legs get cut off, he tried to get away
from the trencher with the other leg, and it was cut off too. He tried to call for help, but there was no
cell service. When he finally got through, he sent a picture of his severed legs and fellow workers
quickly called 911 and came to his rescue. One man had a wire and managed to apply a tourniquet
on the worst injury and did his best to stop the bleeding on the other leg.

 Emergency staff quickly came to life-flight him to Legacy Randall's Children Hospital in Portland,
Oregon. Emergency surgery was performed and he remained in intensive care for a month. He
survived, but the doctors said if he had been ten years older, he would have died. Young people
survive a massive loss of blood better than an adult He has been in constant rehabilitation and
ongoing surgeries since that day. His parents, Leah and Jason Higgins, bought a special vehicle with
hand controls and many more articles of rehabilitation for his care. He recently had surgery to
connect the nerves in his severed legs in an attempt to stop the severe pain he was going through,
and is confined to a wheelchairfor four weeks. His artificial legs connect to titanium rods imbedded
his legs. No one can imagine what this lad has gone through these last three years. He is now
nineteen years old and continues to strive for improvements.

 But most important is his housing needs. Now dark County is threatening to rip the foundation of his
home out from under him, with the demand that he remove the concrete retaining wall his tiny home
sits on. Formerly, his bedroom was in the basement, and he couldn't use stairs. Bathroom facilities
were not up to ADA standards or adequate in this older home. Living next to his family is critical for
his mental wellbeing, as well as his nursing care and support throughout his trials.

He moved into his little brother's small bedroom temporarily, until something else could be done. His
parents knew they had to accommodate his critical health care needs, as soon as possible. hlis living
depended on them making good decisions. Major changes were needed to their home to comply with
Americans with DisabilitiesAct and hlUD Fair hlousing and Equal Opportunity requirements for his
disability. All the 2024 testimony in the record, regarding this case, was ignored by the county staff
and county councilors. Now, three years later, Ms. Whitakertells code enforcement, the Higgins
must remove the concrete that supports Derrik's ADA tiny home, which would require removing his
home entirely. He must use a wheel chair for four weeks and his home situation must be preserved.
The following testimony was given to the county on April 19, 2024, as to why the Higgins chose to do
what they did.

 On June 30th, 2023 our son was in a tragic accident that cut both of his legs off. He was life flighted
to Randall Children's Hospital in critical condition. We knew our son would need a wheelchair the rest
of his life. Our house could accommodate only a small wheelchairand is not ADA at all. His
bedroom was downstairs and inaccessible to him. We would have had to almost gut our house to be
/\DA compliant. While he was in intensive care for a month, we struggled to figure out what to do for
his future housing. We decided to remodel our garage into an ADA room and bathroom and purchase
an ADA tiny home for his future.

 We will likely have a teenage son who will want to move out potentially after he's recovered. Labor
and Industries gave a certain amount of money for home renovation and housing. But that money
was his and was put to better use by buying a tiny home. We paid out of pocket for the
remodel. When he decides to go on his own, he can take the ADA tiny home with him. Most homes
are not ADA accommodating. We STILLhope we did the right thing.

 What would you do for yourself or your loved one, if they suddenly became disabled? We all need to
look towards the future. So, nurses, doctors, ADA advocates and physical therapists recommended
getting an ADA tiny home. You ask whv? Because it has the ability to be made ADA for his
wheelchair, he can move it when he moves out, it's bigger than an RV, he has his own space (his
bedroom was downstairs), personal independence, support for his healing, disability and so many
other things.

 We looked at our property and said, where can this ADA home go where it is least invasive on the
property and still have utilities? It now sits right behind (North) of the remodeled garage. The West
side of the house has a septic field and a well. The East side has a pool and no utilities, which would
be hard to support him, as it would be a long way from the house. There would have been more
impact for road, sidewalk, decks, wheelchairramps, etc. The South side is very sloped, contains the
driveway and not an option. So we put the RV pad behind the remodel, with easy connections to
utilities. It has a door and porch with access to our house, so he can wheel his wheelchair into the
house, giving independence and support at all times. Disruption to the woodlands is minimal and the
home is close to the house.

We don't know how long the RV pad will be there, we planned on temporary since the tiny house will
be temporary until he moves out. But the pad needs to stay there, in case our son needs to move
home for medical reasons. We don't know what the future will bring, but we love our son and must be
there for him, in a time of need."

CCCU sees in Ariel Whitaker's Wetland and Habitat Review Type I Staff Report and Decision
WHR-2023-00271 dated 2-16-24, that the Higgins remodeling of 580 sq. ft. ofan existing garage and
adding another 777 sq. ft. garage is regulated Under dark County Code 40. 445. 040 and they did not
need a permit. Exemptions from Permit Requirements are noted under 40. 445. 040-1. Many of
those items can be applied to the Higgins, but in particular the passage that reads:

"Remodeling, replacement of, or additions to legally established homes and appurtenances that
expand the original footprint by no more than nine hundred (900) square feet within the outer
fifty percent (50%) of the riparian habitat area and avoid clearing of native trees or shrubs."
One can argue they removed two hazard trees, but regardless of what king of trees they were, that
activity also qualifies.

Ariel goes to lengths to describe Oregon Oak regulation to justify extensive mitigation for what she
claims was a removal of two Oak. But her description didn't go far enough. Under Washington

Department of Fish and Wildlife there is a publication called Mapping and validating Oregon white
oak woodlands that clearly explains how one goes about doing that. "Oakwoodland differs
depending on whether the woodland is in a rural or urban environment. " CCCU believes Ariel
used the urban definition for the Higgins property, and not the rural definition, if in fact the frees were
Oak. According to a 2002 county wetland determination, those trees were Oregon Ash. "An Oregon
white oak woodland is also defined by size (WDFW 2008). The minimum size for a stand to qualify
in PHS depends on its location. Stands in western Washingtonqualify if they are at least an
acre. Altman and Stephens (2012) define an oak woodland as having a minimum density of five
large oaks per acre and a minimum oak canopy cover of 25%. " No aerial photo shows five large
Oak on an acre of the Higgins lot. This requirement describes a canopy and not a few small
trees. Given the extensive explanation from the WDFWreport, that language and mitigation
imposed on the Higgins for Oregon Oak, needs to be removed from the Staff Report.

In the Wetland category, Arial calls neighboring land that consists of a farm pond and drainage, as a
Category III Slope wetland with a habitat score of 7. Anyone familiar with the scoring documents
knows the charts are subjective. In addition, the Department of Ecology states they do not monitor
the credentials of those filling out the questionaire. If one uses the dark County chart for wetlands,
the area should be afforded a 75 foot buffer, which would not have affected the Higgins land. But
instead, Arial claimed a 100 foot buffer. In 2002, that same area was given a 50 foot buffer and a 25
foot buffer.

Only the Northwest edge of the pond is in hydric soil, and the rest of it is in non-hydric soil. Hydric
soil is required before a wetland can be determined. But even so, the farm pond and its inadvertent
wetlands created by its overflow, is exempt. The property with the pond has been farmed since it was
first established in 1914. Under the federal, prior converted cropland prior to 1985, legislation,
makes the pond area exempt, as well. The Higgins property was logged in 2002 and the Department
of Natural Resources harvest permit states there were no wetlands on the property. A 2023 DNR
permit for the harvest of the North end of the claimed wetland, also determined there were no
wetlands. But one must ask the question, when the Higgins development had no impact, and
completely confined to a building envelope of the existing garage, added garage and tiny home, why
didn't Arial use the 75 foot buffer, and not the maximum buffer? Given all the facts, that wetland
determination was also incorrect and needs to be reversed.

As we know, the garage space had to be replaced and was added to the remodel. A recent wind
storm had blown over trees as it broke huge limbs from another tree. This was an emergency
situation. One tree was leaning so to cause an imminent dangerto the family and had to be
removed. They did not know what the trees were, but they were a dangerto the family. When a
permit was filed for the addition, Ariel Whitaker was sent and trespassed onto the property when the
Higgins were gone, even though they asked to be present for any county agent. She asked the
workers where were the two Oak trees next to the house, she claims she saw in an aerial photo. The
workers said they did not know anything about it and asked her to leave and come back when the
owners were there. She refused. They called their boss to report concerns, and she told him she
was not going to leave, because she "was the county and she could do what she wanted"
Only using an aerial photo to determine two jurisdictional Oak, does not qualify for a habitat wetland
determination. Oaks in the rural area are determined by using a litmus test of one acre having a 25%
Oak stand, which is not the case here. She was using the urban determination criteria, explained in
the Fish and Wildlife Manuals, which is incorrect. When examining the photos of this parcel, one
clearly sees that in the area behind the garage, that she claimed two Oaks were removed, there was
only trees with light green leaves, which is consistent with the 2002 determination of Oregon Ash. The
lot also has dark colored trees, consistent with Douglas Fir and Oak. The Higgins do have one Oak,
far from that location in the front pasture, seen on a photo as dark green. On the neighboring
property, there are two Big Leaf Maples. Those trees look identical in shape and color.

She then claimed the construction was infringing on a wetland buffer, from an adjacent manmade
farm stock and stormwater pond, which state and federal law determines to be exempt from
regulation. The overflow to that pond goes under the dike and drains at the base of it, making the
ground seasonally wet. In a 2002 development review, that exempt pond was illegally given a 50 foot
and 25 foot buffer. The stormwater that drains from twenty acres of steep 15-20% slopes to the North,
flows into that pond area. That same seasonal stormwater travels over the Higgins lot as
well, Between April and November, it becomes dry.

But Arial is claiming a massive wetland and 100 foot buffer, from that stock farm pond, going
North,South, East and West.. She was given no authority to infringe on that neighboring
property. Everything she is claiming, are only assumptions, as no qualifying activity had occurred,
other than the 2002 county wetland determination.

Most of what Arial was claiming as wetland, is on non-hydric soil. Hydric soil is required for wetland
determinations. Manmade farm ponds are exempt from wetland regulations in every state and
federal law, which the county is bound. This is true within their wetland and critical land ordinances,
federal laws, state laws, and federal 1985 PCC rules.

The Higgins presented their information to the county in 2024 and was ignored. Nowtwo years later
Code Enforcement claims Ms. Whitakercontacted them to say the Higgins must now remove the
concrete that supports the ADA tiny home owned by their son, and perform all sorts of mitigation for a
claimed wetland buffer infringement. The areas she claims must be used for mitigation, already have
plentiful natural vegetation or are in areas that already contain infrastructure necessary for the
primary home. Looking at the recent aerial photo on Google Earth, the natural vegetation is quite
sufficient and the tiny ADA home fits nicely into the scheme, with little or no impact.

 Federal law demands that accommodations within county code be made for a person with physical
disabilities who requires and must have appropriate ADA housing. The following is the Higgins
testimony submitted into the dark County Public Record on their behalf, after receiving the 2024
determination. Over and over again, they attempted to contact the county agents, via phone and
email, with no success. They have not heard from the county until this recent Code Enforcement
letter, that states:

On Wed, Sep 23, 2026 at 10:33AM Robert Osborne <Robert.Osborne clark.wa. ov> wrote:

Hello,

A follow up on the wet/hab monitoring showed the reviews and permit has not yet beencompleted.

Per Ariel Whitacre some of the required corrections had not been completed and no updates have been provided
regarding when the corrections would be made.
    Please provide an update and ETA on when the necessary modifications will be completed so that the property can be in
    compliance and the Code Enforcement case closed.

    Below are the items I was told that needed to be addressed to meet compliance requirements.

    /. The applicant shall rt'mi)\v   shr R\'   parking pi ul aiid reseed the moderitlt' lunil use wiensiiy n-etlaiid hiiffcr wilh it ndtiw herhan'uiis
,   wfd mix.


2. The applicant (or successor in ownership) shall implement the approved mitigation maintenance andmonitoring plan and submit
performancereports to the County for periodic inspection andapproval as specified. The applicantshallmaintain theperformance
standardof 100%sun'ival afteryear one and?M'O, and90%sun'ival atyear three. Any areasnotmeeting this standardshallbe
replanted, with maintenance andmonitoring continuing until the standard has been met Invasive species, including Armenian
blackberry, shallbe <20%within the migrationareas. Volimteer growthmay count towards thefinalnumbers required. Monitoring
reviewfees may bewaivedbut may include site visitfees if WetlandandHabitatrevie\v Staffdetennme

To prevent a notice and order form being issued and daily fines being assessed, please provide an ETA for compliance.

    Thank You,

    Robert Osborne


dark County Code Enforcement Officer Community Development Department

Cell: 360-836-9745 Available Monda -Frida 7am-3:30 m

500 W. 8th Street, Suite 100, Vancouver, WA 98660

Mail to: P. O. Box 9810, Vancouver, WA 98666-9810

There are volumes of documents supporting their position and those documents will be going into the
Public Record and to an attorney for review. But, given the facts, Code Enforcement needs to
recommend repealing the HigginsAddition WHR - 2023-00271 Wetland and Habitat Review Type I
Staff report and Decision.

Thank you for your time and attention to this matter.

Sincerely,

Carol Levanen, Exec. Secretary

dark County Citizens United, Inc.
P. O. Box 2188
Battle Ground, Washington 98604




The complete text of testimony submitted into the record on April, 19, 2024 by Leah and Jason
Higgins.is as follows:

FOR THE PUBLIC RECORD                                                                                         April 19, 2024
dark County Community Development

dark County Council

P. O. Box 5000

Vancouver, Washington 98666

Re: Wetland and Habitat Review - WHR-2023-00271

Tax Lot # 230790000

Address: 17416 North East 299th Street, Yacolt Washington 98675

Dear dark County Wetland staff and Counselors,

 " On June 30th, 2023 our son was in a tragic accident that cut both of his legs off. He was life flighted
to Randall Children's Hospital in critical condition. We knew our son would need a wheelchair the rest
of his life. Our house could accommodate only a small wheelchairand is not ADA at all. His
bedroom was downstairs and inaccessible to him. We would have had to almost gut our house to be
/AD/t compliant. While he was in intensive care for a month, we struggled to figure out what to do for
his future housing. We decided to remodel our garage into an ADA room and bathroom and purchase
an ADA tiny home for his future.

 We will likely have a teenage son who will want to move out potentially after he's recovered. Labor
and Industries gave a certain amount of money for home renovation and housing. But that money
was his and was put to better use by buying a tiny home. We paid out of pocket for the
remodel. When he decides to go on his own, he can take the ADA tiny home with him. Most homes
are not ADA accommodating. We STILLhope we did the right thing.

 What would you do for yourself or your loved one, if they suddenly became disabled? We all need to
look towards the future. So, nurses, doctors, ADA advocates and physical therapists recommended
getting an ADA tiny home. You ask why? Because it has the ability to be made ADA for his
wheelchair, he can move it when he moves out, it's bigger than an RV, he has his own space (his
bedroom was downstairs), personal independence, support for his healing, disability and so many
other things.

 We looked at our property and said, where can this ADA home go where it is least invasive on the
property and still have utilities? It now sits right behind (North) of the remodeled garage. The West
side of the house has a septic field and a well. The East side has a pool and no utilities, which would
jbe hard to support him, as it would be a long way from the house. There would have been more
impact for road, sidewalk, decks, wheelchair ramps, etc. The South side is very sloped, contains the
driveway and not an option. So we put the RV pad behind the remodel, with easy connections to
utilities. It has a door and porch with access to our house, so he can wheel his wheelchair into the
house, giving independence and support at all times. Disruption to the woodlands is minimal and the
home is close to the house.

\Ne don't know how long the RV pad will be there, we planned on temporary since the tiny house will
be temporary until he moves out. But the pad needs to stay there, in case our son needs to move
home for medical reasons. We don't know what the future will bring, but we love our son and must be
there for him, in a time of need."
                                                    7
1. Habitat Determination General:

 "Under WDFWcanopy coverage of the oak components of the stand is 25%; or where total canopy
coverage of the stand is <25%, but oak accounts for at least 50% of the canopy coverage present
(the latter is often referred to as an oak savanna). "



With the above WDFWstatement, both options are not on our property.



Second Paragraph:

It states, .. " during staff site visit on August 23rd 2023 to verify the presence of the Oregan white oak
trees and the verify the stream type and location". During the site visit, staff observed that two
Oregon white oak trees had been removed without any County permits."

 We had multiple trees damaged by the storm and caused damage and were threatening to do
more. We're wondering if the staff person who TRESPASSEDon our land, without permission, lives
on acreage or in town? That question is VERY important, and not at all infringing on staffs' privacy. If
someone lives in town on a lot, they will likely not deal with circumstances that someone on acreage
does, and vice versa. The question comes to mind, what would a person in town do if a huge limb,
half of a tree or a full tree falls on their kids' toys, structures and middle of their lawn? Would they call
the county, ask what to do, ask what type of tree it is, ask for a permit, etc, etc. ? ABSOLUTELY
NOT! They would personally remove it, or have tree specialists come out right away, in order to
regain the safe space on their property. So why would a person who lives in the rural area do
ANYTHING DIFFERENT?




There were a few we removed because of damage that happened in the winter storm. We did not
question what kind of trees they were; we only knew they had to be removed as soon as
possible. The one close to the pool, split in half and landed on my kids play structure, crushed a
flower bed and hit our pool structures. We weren't surprised, since it was only half a tree at that point,
because other large limbs had fallen, and we were very concerned that it would land on one of our
children. In my book, humans WILL ALWAYS be more important than a tree. If anyone disagrees,
see how it feels to lose a loved one in a tragic accident. We also removed some other leaning trees.

 The second large tree was leaning towards the house. A very large limb fell off it, in the same storm,
and the whole tree was threatening to hit the house. I would be shocked if the County would be okay
with putting human lives in danger, in their safe places. It was critical that tree had to be removed
immediately.

 The third tree had a large section (almost half of the tree) snapped off and landed on the house and
the rest was leaning towards the house. Of course, it had to be removed right away. So, do I know
the type of trees? Not really, except they were deciduous trees.
 Trespassing:

 On the staff notes, it said the staff was on the property August 23rd, 2023. Not a single person
knew that County staff were coming or accessing our private property. This is called
TRESPASS.This comes back to rural acreage vs. city lots, that I mentioned. Is a County staff
allowed to just walk into/on or access a subdivision lot in town, or do they need permission? I'm
guessing they need permission, so why would a County staff, paid by citizens taxes and representing
County government, think they can just walk on rural land without permission?

Am I missing something here? If so, please inform me. This is called trespass and under the law,
not acceptable. So, if County staff does trespass on a rural property and goes to the house, the
homeowner or contractor (who represents the owner) would ask why they came, that they should not
be there, and they need to leave. What should the representative of the county do per the law? They
need to leave, right then, not after they "feel" like it.

But this situation gets worse. Shockingly so. When the County staff employee came up to our
house, she started walking around our land. An employee of the building contractor asked her who
she was. She said she was Ariel with dark County. He said, " / don't think you should be on the
homeowners' property. Did you get approval to come on private property?' She said no. She said
she was the "county" and didn't need approval. Say WHAT??? (Please see the attached
narrative below about the conversation between William, Nathan, RG Construction and Ariel.)

 Personal account by the contractors' employees over conversation with dark County
employee

Construction company employee, William, was working on the garage when a vehicle drove up the
driveway to the Higgins property.

He states, "/4 lady came out of the vehicle and went directly into the woods. I asked who she was,
and she said she was Ariel with dark County. I asked her if she contacted anyone before she came
out. She said no. I told her to come out of the woods and then told her that she was not supposed to
be here without approval."

"She ignored me. So I told my supervisor Nathan. Nathan called Shelby (construction co manager
on the project) and asked if the construction co knew that the lady (Ariel) was coming up to look at
stuff? Shelby said no and he wasn't informed of anyone coming up. She didn't have authority to
access the property."

"Nathan called William back and said no one from the county should be on the property. William
handedthe phone to the county employee, Arial, so Nathan could also tell her. Nathan told her that
she never gave notice she was coming, and the manager said that she needed to give notice if she
was coming out to the property. He said she needed to leave. Her response was that she didn't
need to give any notice; she was with dark County. She also said there are specific trees that
were marked in certain areas, and they are gone. Nathan said he didn't know anything about trees,
that they were here to do the addition. He said again, that Ariel was to have authorization to access
the property since it is private property. She said no she didn't and then hung up. She ignored the
request to leave and went back to looking around for a bit and then left. "

County or not, no one is allowed on private property without permission. PERIOD! That constitutes
an arrest, court action and more. Especially if you were asked to leave and you didn't. In this
situation, it was an abuse of government/county "power" and is wrong, unlawful, inexcusable and
shocking that the Councilors allow this kind of action by staff. I expect some remedy from dark
County on the trespass situation and I believe I'm owed an apology. This is the RCW that says the
county is liable for her illegal trespassing.

RCW9A. 08. 010
General requirements of culpability.

        (1) Kinds of Culpability Defined.

       (a) INTENT. A person acts with intent or intentionally when he or she acts with the objective or purpose
to accomplish a result which constitutes a crime.

        (b) KNOWLEDGE. A person knows or acts knowingly or with knowledge when:

        (i) He or she is awareof a fact, facts, or circumstances or result described by a statute definingan
offense; or

        (ii) He or she has information whichwould lead a reasonable person in the same situation to believe
that facts exist which facts are described by a statute defining an offense

RCW9A. 08. 020

(b) His or her conduct is expressly declared by law to establish his or her complicity.



RCW9A. 08. 030

(a) "Agent"means any director, officer, or employee of an entity, or any other person who is authorizedto act
on behalf of the entity;




        (2) An entity is guilty of an offense when:

       (a) The conduct constituting the offense consists of an omission to discharge a specific duty of
performance imposed on entities by law; or

        (b) The conduct constituting the offense is engaged in. authorized, solicited, requested, commanded, or
tolerated by a highmanagerial agent acting withinthe scope of his or her duties and on behalfof the entity; or

     (c) The conductconstituting the offense is engaged in by an agentof the entity, otherthan a high
managerialagent, while acting within the scope of his or her duties and on behalfof the entity and (i) the
offense is a gross misdemeanor or misdemeanor, or (ii) the offense is one defined by a statute which clearly
indicates a legislative intent to impose such criminal liability on an entity.

        (3) A person is criminally liable for conduct constituting an offensewhich he or she performs or
causes to be performed in the name of or on behalf of an entity to the same extent as if such conduct
were performed in his or her own name or behalf.




                                                        10
See the attached narrative.

See the full attached Amendment IV.

2, Wetland Determination General

 Staff states, "Whichresulted in the identification of a Category III Slope wetland with the habitat
score of 7 points located in the northwestern portion of the parcel".

 I have gone through the addendum, "A" Slope Wetland Rating System for Western WA and
answered the questions. (See attached form with my answers.) within the 3 pages and the number I
got is too low of a rating to classify the area to be a wetland. I know for a FACT whole area is dry for
about 6 months of the year. The only time we have water in that area is when winter rain comes off
the hill.

 There isn't a stream, spring or anything in that area that continues to produce water or
wetland. Also, I'm concerned the map that shows a "stream"just disappears. A true stream doesn't
do that. So that should be changed. If someone argues that it starts behind my property, then why
does it go UP a steep slope? Water doesn't run uphill. The other issue on the Category III wetland is
that a wetland has to have water for most of the year, and wetland plants all year long. We have
Douglas Fir trees and other large trees. . I'm NOT denying that water does run off in that area in the
wintertime, but there are so many reasons as to why this is not a wetland. I have accessed the
following information.

Washington Department of Ecology



What are wetlands?

Wetlands-commonly called marshes, swamps, or bogs- are land areas that are saturated or covered
with water for at least some part of the year. A wetland can be the edge of a river or a lake, or a
shrubby area filled with willows. Despite the variety of wetlands, they have three characteristics in
common:




Hydric soils: Soils that are saturated long enough to produce anaerobic conditions.

Water-tolerant plants:

Hydrophytic plants: can tolerate anerobic conditions ofhydric soils.

Water: Present at or near the land surface periodically or continuously during the growing season.



For regulatory purposes, wetlands are defined in several state laws and rules: The shoreline
management act (Ch. 90. 58. 030 RCW), Washington's Water Quality Standards (Ch. 173-201A-020 WAC),
and the Growth ManagementAct (Ch. 36. 70A. 030 RCW).

40. 100. 070 Definitions
                                                   11
Wetlands:

"Wetland"or "wetlands"means areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater at a
frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support, a
prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally
include swamps, marshes, bogs and similar areas. Wetlands do not include those artificial wetlands
intentionally created from non-wetland sites, including, but not limited to, irrigation and drainage
ditches, grass-lined swales, canals, detention facilities, wastewater treatment facilities, farm ponds,
and landscape amenities, or those wetlands created after July 1, 1990, that were unintentionally
created as a result of the construction of a road, street, or highway. Wetlands may include those
artificial wetlands intentionally created from non-wetland areas created to mitigate conversion of
wetlands.




***See attached Slope Wetlands form for full report.

***See attached County wetland information for full report

***See full attached County wetland definitions for full report

3. Habitat Impact General:

Staff states, "Minimize habitat disruption" and "Impacted oak canopy at approximately 910 sqft "....

 We agree with minimizing habitat disruption to wetlands. A true wetland is an area that should have
minimal disruption unless it is necessary. We don't have a wetland and the work/construction was
done on our lawn, that I mow all year long, and is extremely close to my house. Anyone can see we
like fir trees, other trees, animals, pastureland and much more,. but the 910 square feet is way too
high a guesstimate, taken from satellite mapping. Where is the actual scientific data to support such
a designation? All we see is a lot of narrative that doesn't pertain to our property.

4. Wetland Impacts General:

"Staff observed that a retaining wall and gravel RV parking pad had been installed within the 110'
Moderate Land Use Intensity Wetland Buffer "

 They are correct that we constructed an RV pad made of porous gravel, and concrete stem wall, for
a temporary Tiny house. That was because it had to be level for a tiny home. The house will likely be
removed in the future, but for now a pad had to support the home.

*'t**See all maps attached wetland maps that we viewed prior to constructing the RV pad.

5. Habitat Mitigation general:

"The applicant shall enhance 5. 460 square ft of the property adjacent to the existing..."

It is wonderful that Fire District #3 comes out to citizens' homes and performs a fire rating. They
came to our house and asked for permission to do that rating. We allowed them and they evaluated
our home and the area around our home. The home had a zero rating. But not so when considering
30 to 300 feet around the home. The Home Ignition Zone came to a score of 62. which is in the high
fire danger zone. Note on page four of the score card that risk is. Extreme fire danger. Planting any
                                                    12
trees or plants within the 30-300 feet from our house, is unsafe and puts our family in danger. We
should be removing trees and plants, not planting them. What the county is requiring in this report, is
against Fire District 3 recommendations.

**'<See attached District #3 information for full report.

6, Maintenance and Monitoring General:

"After installation of the Oregon white oak tree, maintenance and monitoring are required", "standard
of 100% sur/ival after year one and two, and 90% survival at year three."

 Interesting that dark County staff is saying they want a 100% survival rate year one and two. But
they are asking us to plant Oregon white oak close to each other, competing with a ton of other trees
and plants in the area. All that is contradictory to the health of the plant and to the health of our
family. Oregon white oak prefer and thrive better by themselves without competition. I would think
that dark County environmental staff would want to do what is best for the survival rate for any plant,
but even more important, the survival of our family. If we did plant those Oak and there was a forest
fire, our disabled son would have a hard time getting out of the area in time. We must think of his
safety

**See attached Oregon white oak information for full report.

7. Mitigation As -Built Building:

What am I mitigating? There is no loss of "wetlands", because there is no wetland there, so, what
am I mitigating for?

8. Standard Conditions Building:

Staff states, "A conservation covenant shall be recorded in a form approved by the
Prosecuting Attorney..."

 Absolutely NOT. Why would I record a covenant that allows the County to walk on my private land
any time they want, when they believe they can do it anyways, without a covenant. Is a Covenant
condition part of a city subdivision?? I think not. I've never heard of subdivision lots (except one that
has a recorded greenspace) having a Covenant, which allows dark County to access anytime they
want to make sure they comply with staff. That homeowner owns that lot and for the most part, has
the right to plant, grow, garden, etc. anything they want under state and federal laws. I'm guessing
illegal drugs are not allowed. Why would a rural landowner ever allow a Covenant to be placed on
their property? That is discrimination against rural property owners. Rural property owners are not a
protected class, but why is dark County staff and county rules treating them differently? That is not
acceptable.

We have been given this court information, that we believe is very important to our case.

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES No. 22-1074

GEORGE SHEETZ, PETITIONER v. COUNTY OF EL DORADO, CALIFORNIA ON WRIT OF
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEAL OF CALIFORNIA,

THIRD APPELLATE DISTRICT [April 12, 2024]
                                                      13
JUSTICE BARRETT delivered the opinion of the Court.

 htt s://www. su remecourt. ov/o inions/23 df/22-1074 b md. df

While States have substantial authority to regulate land use, see Village of Euclid v. Amber Realty
Co., 272 U. S. 365 (1926), the right to compensation is triggered if they "physically approphat[ej"
property or otherwise interfere with the owner's right to exclude others from it, Cedar Point Nursery v.
Hassid, 594 U. S. 139, 149-152 (2021). That sort of intrusion on property rights is a per se taking

 Our decisions in Nollan and Dolan address this potential abuse of the permitting process. There, we
set out a twopart test modeled on the unconstitutional conditions doctrine. See Perry v. Sindermann,
408 U. S. 593, 597 (1972) (government "may not deny a benefit to a person on a basis that infringes
his constitutionally protected interests"). First, permit conditions must have an "essential nexus" to the
government's land-use interest. Nollan, 483 U. S., at 837. The nexus requirement ensures that
the government is acting to further its stated purpose, not leveraging its permitting monopoly to
exact private property without paying for it. See id., at 841

 Second, permit conditions must have '"rough proportionality'"to the development's impact on the
land-use interest. Dolan, 512 U. S., at 391. A permit condition that requires a landowner to give up
more than is necessary to mitigate harms resulting from new development has the same potential for
abuse as a condition that is unrelated to that purpose. See id., at 393. This test applies regardless of
whether the condition requires the landownerto relinquish property or requires her to pay a "monetary
exactio[nj" instead of relinquishing the property. Koontz, 570 U. S., at 612-615.

So far as the Constitution's text is concerned, permit conditions imposed by the legislature and other
branches stand on equal footing.

 "The essential question is not . . . whether the government action at issue comes garbed as a
regulation (or statute, or ordinance, or miscellaneous decree). It is whether the government has
physically taken property for itself or someone else. " Cedar Point, 594 U. S., at 149.

This principle is evident in our regulatory takings cases too.

***See attached taking information for full report

Conclusion:

The area behind our house is not a wetland and does not need to be mitigated. It does take some
water runofffrom the hill behind us, and I would considerthat very normal in any situation on
slopes. There are plants and trees in that area. We have left it the way for almost 25 years. We
have only used the area for lawn mowing and driving on (tractors, mowers, 4 wheelers, motorcycles,
bikes and horses). The trees we took out in our backyard were very dangerous hazard trees, as they
have proven with breaking and damaging the area around them.

 We are more than willing to have a phone conversation or a meeting about our property. If staff at
dark County would desire one, please call or email, to make an appointment. We have contacted
the dark County Citizens United, inc. research team to investigate and examine this report in more
detail. We expect they will also be filing their own report, on our behalf, after a close examination of
the data.

Sincerely,
                                                     14
Leah and Jason Higgins

17416 N. E. 299th Street

Yacolt, Washington 98675




FOR THE PUBLIC RECORD
submitted by LEAH AND JASON HIGGINS

     B. Development Activities Authorized Without a Permit.
  The following table lists activities that are authorized without a permit or can be permitted after the fact
  as allowed under Section 40.445, 060. Exemption levels set out in Table 40.445. 040-1 are as follows:

  "A" - Authorized without review.

  "S"- Authorized with a statement of exemption pursuant to Section 40.445. 080(D).


Table 40. 445. 040-1

                                                                                 Exemption
                                   Activity
                                                                                    Level
1. Reconstruction or redevelopment within the same footprint of legally
established structures and impervious surfaces.
2. Remodeling, replacement of, or additions to legally established
homes and appurtenances that expand the original footprint by no
more than nine hundred (900) square feet within the outer fifty
percent (50%) of the riparian habitat area and avoid clearing of native
trees or shrubs.
3. Land disturbance in wetlands and wetland buffers cumulatively less than
five (5) cubic yards in volume and three hundred (300) square feet in area;
provided, that the wetland hydroperiod is not significantly affected.
4. Construction of a four (4) foot or narrower path using natural, wood-
based, or vegetated pervious surfacing.
5. Maintenance of existingyards and landscapingthat does not reduce
functions and values.
6. The removal or eradication of noxiousweeds pursuant to Title 7 or other
exotic nuisance plants including nonnative blackberries; provided, that
ground disturbing machinery is not used.
7. The harvesting or normal maintenance ofvegetation in a manner that is
not injurious to the natural reproduction of such vegetation.
                                                     15
Table 40.445. 040-1

                                                                                    Exemption
                                     Activity
                                                                                       Level
8. Site investigative work necessary for land use application submittals such            A
as sun/eys, soil logs, and percolation tests.
9. Operation, maintenance, or repair of existing structures, utilities, or public
facilitiesthat does not further increasethe impact to, or encroach further
within wetlands, wetland buffers, or fish and wildlife habitat conservation
areas.

10. Habitat restoration or enhancement that does not include grading or
                                                                                         A
changesto hydrology.
11. Soil, water, vegetation, or wildlife conservation projects that have an              A
environmental permit from a state or federal agency.
12. Hazardtree abatementwithin thirty (30) feet of existing permanent                    A
structures.

13. Placement of fencing, private wells, septic systems or individual lot
sewer, water, electrical, or utility connections in wetland buffers and fish
and wildlife habitat conservation areas on a legal lot of record, where
practical alternatives do not exist.
14. Hazard tree abatement more than thirty (30) feet from existing
permanent structure .
15. Any nonexempt activity that does not require compensatory mitigation
to meet the protection standards in Section 40.445. 030.
16. Emergency work to abate immediate danger to persons or property.                See Section
                                                                                    40. 445. 060
17. Emergency repair of utilities or public facilities.                             See Section
                                                                                    40. 445. 060
18. Existingand ongoingagricultural activities conducted in accordancewith
best management practices (BMPs) contained in the latest edition ofthe
USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) Field Office Technical
Guide (FOTG); a farm conservation plan developed in coordination with the
dark Conservation District; or a stewardship plan approved in accordance
with this chapter.
19. Forest practices authorized pursuant to WACTitle 222 or Section
40. 260.080, except forest conversions (moratorium waivers, Class I, Class IV
general, and conversion option harvest plans).

                                Section 40. 260. 080




                                                          16
A man-made farm pond is present in the northeast comer of the adjacent parcel, north of the
residence. The farm pond appears to be excavated from uplands and is circular in shape with
uniform side slopes. According to CCC 40.450.010.C.2. b "Artificial wetlands created from non-
wetland sites including, but not limited to, irrigation and drainage ditches, grass-lined swales,
canals, detention facilities, wastewatertreatment facilities, stormwater facilities, farm ponds,
landscape amenities... " are exempt from regulation.



Court of Appeals decision case # 36066-7-11




                                   [No. 36066-7        Division Two. November 12, 2008.]

ISLA VERDE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS, LTD., ET AL., Respondents, v. THE CITY
OF CAMAS, Petitioner.

VAN DEREN, C. J., dissents by separate opinion.

William D. Kamerrer (of Law Lyman Daniel Kamerrer & Bogdanovich, PS), for petitioner.

Le Anne M. Bremer and Joseph Vance (of Miller Nash, LLP), for respondents.

Authored by J. Robin Hunt.

Concurring: Joel Penoyar. Dissenting: MarywaveVan Deren.

K1 HUNT, J. - Defendantcity of Camas (City) appeals the trial court's grant of summaryjudgment to developer IslaVerde
International Holdings, Ltd., and Connaught International Holdings, Ltd. (Isla Verde) on the liability element of its Land Use
Petition Act (LUPA) «1» petition for damages under RCW64.40.020(1). The City argues that (1) Isla Verdefailed to exhaust
administrative remedies before filing its LUPA petition in superior court; (2) the trial court erred in ruling the City's conduct-
imposition of a 30 percent open-space set-aside condition on Isla Verde's development-was an "unlawful act" for purposes of
chapter 64. 40 RCW damages; and (3) the trial court erred in granting summary judgment based on its unsupported ruling that
the City knew or reasonably should have known that imposition of the 30 percent open-space set-aside condition was
unlawful, which were material issues of fact.


«1» Land Use Petition Act. ch. 36. 70C RCW.»


K2 Holding that whether the City knew or reasonably should have known its 30 percent open-space set-aside condition was
unlawful are issues of material fact, we reverse summary judgment on the liability issue and remand for trial.

                                                               FACTS

                                                     I. PLAT APPLICATION

1f3 In 1995, Isla Verde submitted a preliminary plat application to the City to develop its 13. 4-acre property into 51 lots. fe/a
Verde Int'l Holdings, Inc.v. City ofCamas, 146Wn.2d 740, 746, 49 P.3d 867(2002)(/s/a VerdeII).After hearingpublic
comments, the Camas Planning Commission recommended that the city council approve the development with the following
conditions: (1) construction of a secondary access road for emergency vehicles; (2) payment of impact fees for parks,
recreational facilities, and open-space under Camas Municipal Code (CMC) 3. 88. 070; and (3) compliance with former CMC
18.62.020 (.\9Q'\}, «2»which required every development within a certain class to "retain a minimum of thirty (30%) percent of
the site as open space" ("open-space set-aside"). «3»lsla Verde Int'l. Holdings, Inc. v. City of Camas, 99 Wn. A . 127, 130 n. 1,
990 P.2d 429 (1999) (fe/aVerdeI), afTd, 146Wn.2d 740 (2002).
                                                                  17
«2» Former CMC 18.62.020 (1991) provided:

     A. Proposals for lands within the City have [sic] a P-suffix zoning designation or being developed as a
     planned unit development or subdivision or short plat shall retain a minimum of thirty (30%) percent of
     the site as open space.

     B. For the purpose of this section, "open space(s)" shall be defined to mean areas set aside and suitable
     for active or passive recreation; and areas maintained in a natural state, providing habitat for wildlife,
     and/or containing significant trees and vegetation. This requirement shall be in addition to any area
     required to be dedicated to meet standards for the provision of parks, schools, open space or other
     facilities except that the City may allow up to half (50 [percent]) of the required open space to be credited
     toward the Open Space Network.»

«3» The City's open-space set-aside underformer CMC 18.62.020 differs from a "dedication"in that the developer retains
ownership of the open-space set-aside portion of the development on site. The developer does not transfer ownership to the
City, as occurs with "dedication"of internal subdivision roads, for example, whichthen become City-owned and maintained
public streets.»

1(4 The city council considered Isla Verde's application and the planning commission's recommendations, /s/a Verde II, 146
Wn.2d at 748. IslaVerde objected to all of the planning commission's recommended conditions, especially the mandatory30
percent open-space set-aside. Id. at 749. Attempting to negotiate a lesser set-aside, Isla Verde volunteered to pay the City
money in exchange for the City's reducing the percentage of open-space to be set aside as a condition of plat approval. «4»
Id. These negotiations apparently did not result in an agreement.

«4» The trial court characterizedas "voluntary" Isla Verde and the City's negotiatingwhether Isla Verde could "pay down"the
mandatory 30 percent set-aside.»

1)5 In July 1995, the city council approved Isla Verde's application on condition that Isla Verde (1) build a secondary access
road for emergency vehicles in and out of the subdivision and (2) set aside 30 percent of the subdivision land as open-space,
with no opportunities for Isla Verde to "buy down" the full percentage./cf. at 746-50.

                                                           PROCEDURE

                                                        A. First Appeal

                                               1. Superior court LUPA review

1[6 Seeking LUPAreview of the City's allegedly unlawful conditions imposed on its proposed subdivision, Isla Verdefiled an
action for damages under RCW64.40.020 in dark County Superior Court. Id. at 750. The superior court ruled that the
secondary access road condition violated both constitutional substantive due process and chapter 64. 40 RCW because this
condition (1) was impossible to satisfy, unduly burdensome, arbitrary and capricious and (2) denied every viable use of the
property. Id. The superior court also ruled that the mandatory 30 percent open-space set-aside condition was a "taking" in
violation of the state constitution, RCW 82. 02. 020, and chapter 64. 40 RCW, because the City had made no specific finding that
Isla Verde development impacts necessitated this condition, /cf. Accordingly, the superior court struck both subdivision plat
approval conditions as unlawful.

1f7 The City moved for reconsideration. In support, it submitted a 1991 land use study on which it had based the mandatory 30
percent open-space set-aside requirement. This study, however, showed only the benefits ofopen-space generally; it did not
tie the 30 percent open-space set-aside requirement to any specific impact of Isla Verde's development. fe/a Verde I, 99 Wn.
App. at 133. Refusingto considerthe City's additional evidence as "untimely, " the superior court denied the motion for
reconsideration. Id. at 132-33.


                                                     2. Court of Appeals

1[8 The City appealed. We affirmed the superior court's ruling that the mandatory 30 percent open-spaceset-asidecondition
on Isla Verde's subdivision was unlawful. We held that the 30 percent open-space set-aside violated the Takings Clause of the
Fifth Amendment to the federal Constitution. <c5» Id. at 137-38.

«5» Although the superior court ruled that the City's mandatory open-space set-aside constituted an improper "taking" under
the state constitution, we limited our holding to the condition's violation of the takings clause of the federal Constitution, te/a
                                                                 18
Verde I, 99 Wn. App. at 137-38. Thus, other than mentioning RCW82. 02. 020 in a footnote, we did not expressly address
whether this condition also violated this statute. Id. at 140 n.4.


We reversed the superior court's ruling that the secondary access road condition was improper; and we reinstated this
requirement because the road "was designed to prevent a threat to the health, safety, and welfare of [the development's]
residents. " Id. at 136. This condition is not at issue in the instant appeal.»

                                                       3. Supreme Court

K9 The Washington Supreme Court granted the City's petition for review, fe/a Verde Int'l Holdings, Inc. v. City ofCamas, 141
Wn.2d 1011, 10 P.3d1071 (2000). The City argued that the conditions it had imposed on Isla Verde's development were valid.
te/a Verde II, 146 Wn. 2d at 745. With respect to the set-aside open-space condition, our Supreme Court disagreed.

K10 The Supreme Court, however, did not address the constitutionality of the condition or the City's ordinance. «6»Instead,
the court focused on the condition's illegality under RCW 82. 02. 020. Emphasizing that the City had failed to show it had made
an individualized determination to justify the mandatory 30 percent open-space set-aside condition, the Supreme Court held
that the condition was an unlawful "in kind indirect 'tax, fee, or charge' on new development" under RCW82. 02. 020.        fe/a
Verde, 146 Wn. 2d at 759. The court reasoned that (1) "[a]side from the ordinance requiring a flat 30 percent set aside for every
proposed subdivision, there [was] nothing in the record explaining why 30 percent was chosen as the amount of open space"
and (2) the lack of a correlation between the 30 percent open-space set-aside and impacts of Isla Verde's development
rendered the condition unlawful under ROW 82. 02. 020. Id. at 763.


«6» The Supreme Court concluded that (1) the open-space set-aside condition violated RCW 82.02.020; (2) no statutory
exceptions applied; and (3) therefore, it did not need to reach the constitutional takings issue. fe/a Verde II, 146 Wn. 2d at 764-
65.»

«7» Former RCW 82. 02. 020 (1995) provided, in pertinent part:

     Except as provided in RCW 82. 02. 050 through 82. 02. 090, no county, city, town, or other municipal
     corporation shall impose any tax, fee, or charge, either direct or indirect,... on the development,
     subdivision, classification, or reclassification of land. However, this section does not preclude
     dedications of land or easements within the proposed development or plat which the county,
     city, town, or other municipal corporation can demonstrate are reasonably necessary as a direct
     result of the proposed development or plat to which the dedication of land or easement is to
     apply.»

1)11 Although invalidating the 30 percent open-space set-aside condition, the court upheld the secondary access-road
condition, Id. at 769, and remanded the case for further proceedings. Id. at 771.

                          B. Remand to Superior Court; Isla Verde's Claim for Damages

1)12 On remand, Isla Verde moved for partial summary judgment against the City on the issue of liability under chapter 64. 40
RCW. Isla Verde argued that the City knew or reasonably should have known that Washington law requires a municipality to
conduct an individualized analysis before imposing a blanket condition, such as the mandatory 30 percent open-space set-
aside at issue here.


1f13 The City cross-motioned for summary judgment, arguing that Isla Verde could not prevail at trial as a matter of law
because Isla Verde had failed (1) to challenge the open-space set-aside as unlawful under RCW 64.40 on appeal, (2) to present
evidence that the City knew or reasonably should have known its 30 percent open-space set-aside condition was unlawful,
and (3) to present evidence of cognizable damages.

1]14 Agreeing, in part, with Isla Verde, the superior court concluded:

    [l]t is clear that the [c]ourts have consistently found that the action of the City in imposing the
    condition of 30 [percent] open-space on this development was not valid. Specifically, applying
    this condition without a showing of need in this specific application violated RCW 82.02. 020.

Clerk's Papers (CP) at 388 (emphasis added). The superior court further noted that once the validity of
the City's mandatory set-aside ordinance was challenged,

                                                                 19
     [T]he City had the option of withdrawing the condition or appealing the Superior Court's decision.
     The City elected to appeal not only the Superior Court but also that of the Court of Appeals.
     Clearly, at this juncture, the City should have known that the ordinance as applied was invalid.
     The wealth of reported case law in existence at this time supports this conclusion. Thus I find
     that the City's actions in defending the ordinance after the issue was raised, invokes the
     ramifications of RCW 64. 40.


     ... I must allow petitioner the opportunity to prove any damages pursuant to the statute.

CP at 389-90.

1(15 Finding no genuine issue of material fact about whether the City knew or should have known that its blanket 30 percent
open-spaceset-aside condition was unlawful, the superior court (1) deniedthe City's motion for summaryjudgment, (2)
granted IslaVerde's motion for summaryjudgment on the knowledge/liabilityelement of its claim, and (3) set the case for trial
at which Isla Verdewould prove what damages, if any, the City owed underchapter64.40 RCW.

                                                    C. Interlocutory Appeal

K16 The City petitioned our court for discretionary review, which we granted on the limited issues of whether, as a matter of
law, the City acted "unlawfully" and knew or reasonably should have known that its action was unlawful. «8» Thus, there has
not yet been a trial on damages.

«8» Our court commissioneroriginally denied the City's petition for discretionary review. A panel ofjudges granted, in part,
the City's motion to modify the commissioner's decision; we granted review of only the trial court's summary judgment on the
issue of liability under chapter 64.40 RCW.»

                                                           ANALYSIS

1f17 Isla Verde filed a LUPA action against the City for damages under ROW 64. 40. 020. Isla Verde asserted that the City knew
or reasonably should have known that its imposition of a mandatory 30 percent open-spaceset-asidewas "unlawful"within
the meaning of RCW 64. 40. 020(1), thus entitling it to damages, costs, and attorney fees as a matter of law. The trial court
agreed and granted summary judgment to Isla Verde on the issue of liability under the statute.

K18 RCW 64. 40. 020 provides, in part:

    (1) Owners of a property interest who have filed an application for a permit have an action for
    damages to obtain relief from acts of an agency which are arbitrary, capricious, unlawful, or
    exceed lawful authority, or relief from a failure to act within time limits established by law:
    PROVIDED, That the action is unlawful or in excess of lawful authority only if the final decision
    of the agency was made with knowledge of its unlawfulness or that it was in excess of lawful
    authority, or it should reasonably have been known to have been unlawful or in excess of lawful
     authority.

     (2) The prevailing party in an action brought pursuant to this chapter may be entitled to
     reasonable costs and attorney's fees.

    (3) No cause of action is created for relief from unintentional procedural or ministerial errors of
    an agency.

(Emphasis added.)

                                   I. EXHAUSTION OF ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES

1119The City first contends that IslaVerde'sfailure to file a chapter 64.40 RCWadministrative claim, challenging the
mandatory 30 percent open-space set-asidecondition, precluded its filing a LUPApetition for damages in superior court. «9»
Isla Verde counters that it objected to this condition at its first opportunity and in the proper forum.


                                                                 20
«9» Requiring administrative remedy exhaustion before initiating a LUPAaction in superior court allows the parties to have
"an opportunity consistentwith due process to make a record on the factual issues." RCW36.700.120(1).»

[1] K20 The record supports Isla Verde. Until the City issued its final order, Isla Verde contested the City's open-spaceset-
aside condition at every stage of the administrative proceedings below: (1) in its negotiations with the City for an agreement
allowing Isla Verde to "buy down"the 30 percent set-aside, «10»(2) in proceedings before the Camas Planning Commission,
and (3) in proceedings




These are results for where in the dark county sformwafer manual talks about
permanent conservation covenants

In Clark County, requirements for permanent conservation covenants and stormwater covenants are
primarily located in Book 1 (Applicability and BMP Selection) of the Clark Count Stormwater
Manual.

Specific guidelines for these covenants dictate how they are handled:
    .   Section 40. 100.070
    .




                         Clark County Wetland and Habitat FAQs

        htt s: clark. wa. ov communit -develo ment wetland-and-habitat-fa s




What if I disagree with the mapping?
                .        You can hire a qualified consultant to do a study of the property. That study
        can then be submitted for review by the county through the pre-determination process.
        After reviewing the study, staff will issue a written report regarding the validity of the
        report and/or mapping. Changes to mapping will be made as appropriate.

        What elevates the county agent higher than the qualified consultant? Why would staff not
        validate the professional report? The professional report should be the bottom line.



40. 445. 020     Designation

                      . A.    General.


                    1. Mapping.




                                                              21
   a. The county shall maintain an inventory consisting of mapping of areas where
  wetlands and fish and wildlife habitat conservation areas are likely to be present. The
   county inventory will be in a geographical information system (CIS) that includes the
   most current updates, from the listed sources of information, of the following:

       (1) Hydric soils (Natural Resources Conservation Service of U. S. Department of
       Agriculture (NRCS));

       (2) The National Wetland Inventory (U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service);

       (3) The Clark County wetland inventory model (Clark County);

       (4) Priority habitat and species areas (Washington State Department of Fish and
       Wildlife (WDFW));

       (5) Riparian habitat areas based on current water type and site classes
       (Washington State Department of Natural Resources):

       (6) Site potential tree height(NRCSsoil survey); and

       (7) Site-specific mapping (Clark County responsible official).

  b. dark County shall make mapping available to the public in accordance with data
  sharing agreements with the agencies responsible for maintaining the data.

2. Site-Specific Determination. Upon submittal of an application for a stand-alone
determination or a development permit, the responsible official shall determine the
probableexistenceofwetlands,wetland buffers, and fish and wildlife habitatconservation
areas on the site specified in the application based on site conditions. Determinations shall
be based on application ofthe definitions in this section rather than the mapping.

3. Responsibility. Assessments and analyses required for designation of wetlands,
wetland buffers, and fish and wildlife habitat conservation areas are the responsibility of
the applicant. The responsible official shall verify the accuracy ofthe applicant's submittals
and either concurwith the findingsor provide a written report identifyingdeficienciesthat
need to be resolved. In addition, the responsible official may meet with the applicant on
the site to discuss any questions or deficiencies. The applicant may appeal the responsible
official's determination of deficiencies upon issuance of a determination or permit
decision.


4. Development Envelopes. The applicant may satisfy its responsibilities under Section
40, 445. 020(A)(3) by designating on proposed plans dev

                                     22
(Added:Ord. 2023-03-01)

     B.   Wetlands


          1.    Wetland is defined in Section 40. 100. 070.



2. Wetland Delineation Required. Upon submittal of an application for a building or development
permit, the responsible official shall determinethe probableexistenceof wetlands or wetland buffers
on the site specified in the application. If the responsible official finds that wetlands or wetland buffers
probably exist on the site, a wetland delineation is required unless:
               a. The responsible official accepts development envelopes as allowed in Section
               40.445. 020(A)(4); or

               b. The application is subject to Type I review under Section 40. 510.010 and relies on a
               wetland determination issued pursuant to Section 40. 445. 080(0).

3. Wetland Delineation Methodology. The location of a wetland and its boundary shall be determined
through the performance of a field investigation utilizing the methodology contained in the Wetlands
Delineation Manual. If a wetland is located off site and is inaccessible, the best available information
shall be used to determine the wetland boundary and category.
          4. Wetland Rating. Wetlands shall be rated according to the Washington State
          Department of Ecology (Ecology) Wetland Rating System for Western Washington (the
          rating system). Wetlands shall be mapped in assessment units, classified, and scored on
          the ratingform in accordancewith the rating system manual. The responsible official shall
          follow the recommendations of Ecology in interpreting the rating system.

          1. SpecificStandardsfor Wetlands.

            a. Permitted Activities in Wetlands. The following additional activities are allowed in
            wetlands subject to the standards of Section 40.445. 030(B)(1):

                   (1) Conversion to Upland. Placement of fill or installation of drainage to convert
                   wetlands to uplands consistent with the stated purpose of the proposed
                   development.

                   (2)   Conversion to Wetland Buffer. Reduction in the functional area of wetlands
                   due to buffer reductions that are not authorized under Section 40.445, 030(0(2).

                         (a) Conversions for placement of roads and utilities.

                         (b) Conversion caused by wetland alterations authorized under Section
                         40.445. 030(0(1)(a)(1).
                                                 23
                  (c) Conversions for other development. Compensatory mitigation for
                  converted wetlands shall comply with the standards in Section
                  40. 445. 030(ex1 )(b).



              (3) Stormwater Management Facilities. A wetland may be physically or
              hydrologically altered to meet the requirements of an LID or flow control BMP if all
              of the following criteria are met:

                  (a) The wetland is rated as Category III or IVwith a habitat score less than
                  six (6) points;

                  (b) The affected wetland area does not contain a breeding population of
                  native amphibiansor potential amphibian breeding habitat (per Question H
                  1. 5 on the wetland rating form);

                  (c) The wetland lies in the natural routing of the runoff, and the discharge
                  follows the natural routing; and

                  (d) The hydrologicfunctions of the wetland can be improved as indicated by
                  one (1) or more ofthe following characteristics:

                       (i) Ditchesor drain tiles effectively drainingthe wetland;

                       (ii) Manmade isolation from adjacent flooding (i. e., dikes);

                       (iii)   Fill that can be removed to increase effective flood storage;

                       (iv) One (1) or more culverts that are lower than the natural outlet of
                       the wetland; or


                       (v) The wetland is part of a priority restoration plan that achieves
                       restoration goals identified in a shoreline master program or other local
                       or regional watershed plan. clearly avoid wetlands, wetland buffers, and
                       fish and wildlife habitat conservation areas.




40. 445 WETLANDS AND FISH AND WILDLIFE HABITAT CONSERVATION AREAS

      .     htt s: www.code ublishin .com W            ClarkCount c i NewSmartCom ile. I? a
th=html ClarkCount 40 ClarkCount 40445 ClarkCount 40445. html




                                             24
        Public Officers and Agencies Title 42 RCW
        htt s: a .Ie .wa. ovRCW default.as x?cite=42


       These rules pertain to those in county offices.




                    RCW 49. 60. 2235 Unfair practice to coerce, intimidate,
            threaten, or interfere regarding secured real estate transaction
            rights.
        It is an unlawfu practice to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any person
in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having exercised or enjoyed, or
on account of his or her having aided or encouraged any other person in the exercise or
enjoyment of, rights regarding real estate transactions secured by RCW 49. 60. 030,
49. 60. 040, and 49. 60. 222 through 49. 60. 224.




    RCW 49. 60. 224 Real property contract provisions
restricting conveyance, encumbrance, occupancy, or
use to persons ofparticular race, disability, etc., void-
Unfair practice.
       (1) Every provision in a written instrument relatingto real property which purports to forbid or
restrict the conveyance, encumbrance, occuoancv. or lease thereof to individuals of a specified race.
creed, color, sex, national origin, citizenshipor immigration status, sexual orientation,familieswith
children status, honorably discharged veteran or military status, or with any sensory, mental, or physical
disabilityor the use of a trained dogguideor service animal by a person who is blind, deaf, or physically
disabled, and every condition, restriction, or prohibition, includinga right of entry or possibility of
reverter, whichdirectly or indirectly limits the use or occupancyof real property on the basisof race,
creed, color, sex, national origin, citizenshipor immigration status, sexual orientation, familieswith
children status, honorablydischargedveteran or military status, or the presence of anysensory, mental,
or physical disabilityor the use of a trained dogguideor service animal by a person who is blind, deaf,or
physically disabled is void.



                                                    25
       The Fair Housing Act (FHA) protects individuals with disabilities from discrimination in
housing, which includes the placement of mobile homes. Under this law, local governments may be
required to provide reasonable accommodations for individuals with disabilities, allowing them to
place mobile homes in certain areas despite zoning restrictions.

Legal Protections for Disabled Individuals

       Understanding the legal framework is essential for disabled individuals seeking housing.
   .   Fair Housing Act - This federal law prohibits discrimination against individuals with
       disabilities in housing-related matters.
   .   Reasonable Accommodations - Local governments may need to grant exceptions for
       mobile home placements for disabled individuals.
   .   Zoning Laws - Some zoning laws may disproportionately affect disabled individuals,
       necessitating accommodations.
   .   Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) - While primarily focused on public accommodations,
       the ADA also supports the rights of disabled individuals in housing contexts.



       Reasonable accommodations under the Fair Housing Act (FHA) are modifications or
adjustments made in policies, practices, or services to allow individuals with disabilities equal
opportunity to use and enjoy their housing. These accommodations can vary widely, depending on
the specific needs of the individual and the nature of the housing situation.

Understanding Reasonable Accommodations

       These accommodations are essential for ensuring accessibility in housing.
   .   Definition - Reasonable accommodations are necessary adjustments in housing policies to
       assist individuals with disabilities.
   .   Examples - Accommodations can include allowing service animals in no-pet housing or
       providing reserved parking spaces.
   .   Legal Requirement - The FHA mandates that housing providers must make these
       accommodations unless it causes undue hardship.
   .   Scope - These rights apply to various residential settings, including rental units and
       homeowners associations




       The Federal Fair Housing Act (FHA) protects disabled individuals from discrimination in
housing by requiring reasonable accommodations and modifications to policies, practices, and
services, even in private settings. This means that if a county regulation conflicts with a disabled

                                                   26
person's ability to access housing, the FHA can provide a legal basis for challenging such
regulations to ensure equal opportunity in housing.

Protections Under the Fair Housing Act

       The FHA offers several key protections for disabled individuals.
   .   Reasonable Accommodations - The FHA mandates that landlords must make reasonable
       adjustments to rules or policies to allow disabled individuals equal access to housing.
   .   Modifications - Tenants with disabilitiescan request modificationsto their living spaces,
       such as installing grab bars, at their own expense.
   .   Protection from Discrimination - The FHA prohibits discrimination based on disability,
       ensuring that disabled individuals cannot be denied housing opportunities.
   .   Legal Recourse - Disabled individuals can file complaints with the Department of Housing
       and Urban Development (HUD) if they believe their rights under the FHA have been violated.




    Best management practices for mitigating impacts to
Oregon white oak priority habitat
       This is the criteria that dark county needs to follow to determine jurisdictional Oak



       htt s://wdfwwa. ov/sites/default/files/ ublications/02465/wdfw02465. df




        Mapping and validating Oregon white oak woodlands


        This is intended to provide a standard procedure for mapping stands of Oregon white oak to
establish if a stand meets the definition of an Oregon white oak woodland in WDFW's Priority Habitats
and Species List (WDFW 2008). Oregon white oak woodland is defined in PHS by the size of the
stand and its canopy cover. The definition of an Oregon white oak woodland differs depending
on whether the woodland is in a rural or urban environment. It also differs depending if it is in
eastern or western Washington. The complete definition of an Oregon white oak woodland is found in
the PHS List (WDFW 2008). According to the PHS definition, an Oregon white oak woodland requires
a total tree canopy cover of no less than 25%. For a stand to qualify in PHS as an Oregon white oak
woodland, the oak component of that total canopy cover needs to also be at least 25% (Figure A1).
Figure A1. Simplified diagram of a woodland showing 20 trees each of which is providing the same
                                                 27
 amount of canopy cover. The five trees in the third row are Oregon white oaks while the remaining
trees are conifers. These five oaks make up 25% of the total cover provided in the stand and thus the
stand qualifies as an Oregon white oak woodland in PHS. Stands with less than 25% total tree
canopy cover can also qualify under the PHS definition but would not be considered an Oregon white
oak woodland. Stands with less than 25% total tree canopy cover can qualify as an Oregon white oak
savanna if at least 50% of the total cover consists of Oregon white oak. This protocol, however, only
deals with mapping Oregon white oak woodlands. An Oregon white oak woodland is also defined
by size (WDFW 2008). The minimum size for a stand to qualify in PHS depends on its location.
Stands in western Washington qualify if they are at least an acre (0. 4 hectares). In eastern
Washington, a stand qualifies if it is no less than 5 acres (2 hectares). The exception is in urban or
urbanizing areas, where a stand can qualify when it is less than an acre. In urban and urbanizing
areas, some individual oak trees can also qualify as a priority in PHS when the tree has
characteristics that make them particularly valuable to wildlife (WDFW 2008). Such characteristics
Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife 25 include open-growing oaks with mushroom-shaped
crowns, large diameter mainstems, deep cavities, or when they are used by species that WDFW has
identified as priority species (WDFW 2008) or species of greatest conservation need (WDFW 2015).
Mapping Oregon white oak woodlands is straightforward when the patch of woodland is relatively
contiguous, greater than an acre, and has an oak canopy appreciably greater than 25% of the total
canopy. Mapping of oak woodlands becomes more challenging when trees are more dispersed. For
this reason, we provide the following methodology for mapping the boundary of a stand of oaks. We
have derived this methodology to map a stand and determine if it qualifies as an Oregon white oak
woodland in PHS. The method involves a series of steps requiring data collection in the field and
work using a Geographical Information System (GIS) application in the office. The method will help to
determine if the site meets the minimum standard to qualify as an Oregon white oak woodland in
PHS. Individual oak trees will need to be mapped in the field using a Global Positioning System
(GPS) unit. The data gathered with GPS technology will be downloaded for GIS viewing and
processing. When taking GPS points in the field, it is important to map all oak trees on the site being
assessed and any oaks on adjacent sites. The GPS reading for each Oregon white oak tree should
be taken as close to the base of the tree's mainstem as possible. Point averaging or differential
correction methods are advised to increase precision when taking GPS readings. Because oak
woodlands can cross into an adjacent property, GPS points should be taken for every oak tree on the
assessed parcel(s) and adjacent parcels. If permission cannot be obtained to access adjacent
parcels/properties, high-resolution aerial photographs can be used as an alternative to locate and
mark oaks on adjacent parcels. Oak trees and particularly more mature oaks can be readily discerned
from aerial photographs. They are often distinguishable from other species of trees in that they often
resemble a head of broccoli when viewed on higher-resolution color aerial photographs. Directions for
mapping and validating oak woodland habitat in GIS The following steps are provided to identify and
map stands of oak. This includes calculating the acreage and canopy of each stand to see if they
meet the acreage and canopy threshold in PHS for Oregon white oak woodlands. The process for
mapping and calculating these metrics will all require using GIS. The first step is for the GPS point
data gathered in the field to be uploaded for viewing and processing in G IS. This processing involves
buffering each point by a radius of 118 feet (Figure A2). This 118-foot radius produces an area of
approximately 1 acre. A 1-acre radial plot is the maximum spacing between trees that could still
contain five per acre. Altman and Stephens (2012) define an oak woodland as having a
minimum density of five large oaks per acre and a minimum oak canopy cover of 25%. This
corresponds to what was used to identify oak woodland patches in a study to map and prioritize oak
woodland habitat in Oregon and Washington (McClure and Duckworth 2021). These thresholds used
by Altman and Stephens (2012) also closely correspond to the threshold used to identify priority
Oregon white oak woodland habitat in PHS.


                                                  28
         Clark County Wetland and Habitat FAQs


         htt s://clark. wa. ov/communit -develo ment/wetland-and-habitat-fa s




What if I disagree with the mapping?
       You can hire a qualified consultant to do a study of the property. That study can then be
submitted for review by the county through the pre-determination process. After reviewing the
study, staff will issue a written report regarding the validity of the report and/or mapping.
Changes to mapping will be made as appropriate.

      What elevates the county agent higher than the qualified consultant? Why would staff
not validate the professional report? The professional report should be the accepted report,
without any changes from staff.




         U. S. DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

         OFFICE OF FAIR HOUSING AND EQUAL OPPORTUNIPf

         U. S. DEPARTMENTOF JUSTICECIVILRIGHTS DIVISION

      Washington, D.C. November 10, 2016



       The regulation of land use and zoning is traditionally reserved to state and local governments,
except to the extent that it conflicts with requirements imposed by the Fair Housing Act or other
federal laws. This Joint Statement provides an overview of the Fair Housing Act's requirements
relating to state and local land use practices and zoning laws, including conduct related to group
homes.



                                                  29
        This Joint Statement focuses on the Fair Housing Act, not on other federal civil rights laws that
prohibit state and local governments from adopting or implementing land use and zoning practices
that discriminate based on a protected characteristic, such as Title II of the Americans with
Disabilities Act ("ADA"), 3 Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 ("Section 504"), 4 and Title VI
of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. 5 In addition, the Joint Statement does not address a state or local
government's duty to affirmatively further fair housing, even though state and local governments that
receive HDD assistance are subject to this duty. For additional information provided by DOJ and MUD
regarding these issues, see the list of resources provided in the answer to Question 27



       This Joint Statement focuses on the Fair hlousing Act, not on other federal civil rights laws that
prohibit state and local governments from adopting or implementing land use and zoning practices
that discriminate based on a protected characteristic, such as Title II of the Americans with
Disabilities Act ("ADA"), 3 Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 ("Section 504"), 4 and Title VI
of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. 5 In addition, the Joint Statement does not address a state or local
government's duty to affirmatively further fair housing, even though state and local governments that
receive HDD assistance are subject to this duty. For additional information provided by DOJ and MUD
regarding these issues, see the list of resources provided in the answer to Question 27



       As established by the Supremacy Clause of the U. S. Constitution, federal laws such as the
Fair hlousing Act take precedence over conflicting state and local laws. The Fair Housing Act thus
prohibits state and local land use and zoning laws, policies, and practices that discriminate based on
a characteristic protected under the Act. Prohibited practices as defined in the Act include making
unavailable or denying housing because of a protected characteristic. Housing includes not only
buildings intended for occupancy as residences, but also vacant land that may be developed into
residences.




       2. What types of land use and zoning laws or practices violate the Fair Housing Act?



      Refusing to provide reasonable accommodations to land use or zoning policies when such
accommodations may be necessary to allow persons with disabilities to have an equal opportunity to
use and enjoy the housing, by, for example, denying a request to modify a setback requirement so an
accessible sidewalk or ramp can be provided for one or more persons with mobility disabilities.



         . Can state and local land use and zoning laws or practices violate the Fair Housing Act if the
state or locality did not intend to discriminate against persons on a prohibited basis?



       Yes. Even absent a discriminatory intent, state or local governments may be liable under the
Act for any land use or zoning law or practice that has an unjustified discriminatory effect because of
a protected characteristic. In 2015, the United States Supreme Court affirmed this interpretation of the
                                                    30
Act in Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs v. Inclusive Communities Project, Inc.7
The Court stated that "[t]hese unlawful practices include zoning laws and other housing restrictions
that function unfairly to exclude minorities from certain neighborhoodswithout any sufficient
justification. "8



       10. What is a reasonable accommodation under the Fair Ho using Act?



       The Fair Housing Act makes it unlawful to refuse to make "reasonable accommodations"to
rules, policies, practices, or services, when such accommodations may be necessary to afford
persons with disabilities an equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling. A "reasonable
accommodation" is a change, exception, or adjustment to a rule, policy, practice, or service that may
be necessary for a person with a disability to have an equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling,
including public and common use spaces. Since rules, policies, practices, and services may have a
different effect on persons with disabilities than on other persons, treating persons with disabilities
exactly the same as others may sometimes deny them an equal opportunity to use and enjoy a
dwelling




      20. When does a state or local government violate the Fair Housing Act by failing to grant a
request for a reasonable accommodation?



         A state or local government violates the Fair Housing Act by failing to grant a reasonable
accommodation request if (1) the persons requesting the accommodation or, in the case of a group
home, persons residing in or expected to reside in the group home are persons with a disability under
the Act; (2) the state or local government knows or should reasonably be expected to know of their
disabilities; (3) an accommodation in the land use or zoning ordinance or other rules, policies,
practices, or services of the state or locality was requested by or on behalf of persons with disabilities;
(4) the requested accommodation may be necessary to afford one or more persons with a disability
an equal opportunity to use and enjoy the dwelling; (5) the state or local government refused to grant,
failed to act on, or unreasonably delayed the accommodation request; and (6) the state or local
government cannot show that granting the accommodation would impose an undue financial and
administrative burden on the local government or that it would fundamentally alter the local
government's zoning scheme. A requested accommodation may be necessary if there is an
identifiable relationship between the requested accommodation and the group home residents'
disability. Further information is provided in Q&A 10 above and the HUD/DOJJoint Statement on
Reasonable Accommodations under the Fair Housing Act.



       24 What if a local government fails to act promptly on a reasonable accommodation request?




                                                    31
       A local government has an obligation to provide prompt responses to reasonable
accommodation requests, whether or not a formal reasonable accommodation procedure exists. A
local government's undue delay in responding to a reasonable accommodation request may be
deemed a failure to provide a reasonable accommodation.




     The sheriff's policy also violates the Constitution. As the U. S. Supreme
Court affirmed in Cedar Point Nurser v. Hassid, your rights to use your own
property and to refuse trespassers access to it cannot be overridden by a third
party. If the government wants to take control of your property and dictate
whom you allow on it and whom you're permitted to exclude from it, then the
Constitution demands it pay you just compensation for that taking.




       Hardship Housing Codes Overview


       In dark County, Washington, hardship housing codes allow individualsfacing significant
personal or financial difficulties to apply for permits that enable them to establish temporary housing
solutions. These codes are designed to provide relief while ensuring compliance with local regulations
and safety standards.




       Understanding the keyaspects of hardship housing codes is essential.
       Eligibility Criteria - Applicants must demonstrate a significant hardship, such as financial
       distress or medical issues, to qualify for a hardship permit.
      Required Documentation - Necessary documents include building plans, plot plans, and proof
      of utilities, ensuring compliance with local codes.
      Permit Process - The application process involves submitting forms and plans for review,
      which must adhere to zoning regulations and safety standards.
      Temporary Solutions - Hardship permits typically allow for temporary housing solutions, such
      as mobile homes or temporary structures, under specific conditions.



      In dark County, Washington, Title 40 outlines the regulations for hardship housing, allowing for
temporary structures under specific conditions. These provisions are particularly relevant for

                                                   32
properties outside the Urban Growth Area (UGA), where hardship permits can facilitate necessary
housing solutions.

Hardship Housing Regulations in Title 40

        Title 40 provides essential guidelines for hardship housing in dark County.
    .   hlardship Permits - Temporary structures can be permitted based on hardship rules,
        especially outside the UGA.
    .   Application Process - Applicants must submit detailed forms, including plot plans and
        compliance with local codes.
    .   Utility Verification - A valid water letter from dark County Public Health is required if using a
        private or community well.
    .   Zoning Compliance - All applications must adhere to local zoning regulations to ensure
        proper land use



        This page provides information about accessory dwelling unit regulations in Washington state.

      An accessory dwelling unit or ADU is a self-contained living space within or on the same
property as a principal dwelling unit. By definition, ADUs are generally smaller in size and more
affordablethan traditional homes and blend in well with low and moderate-density development.

       In Washington state, many cities and counties must allow two ADUs on all residential lots that
allow single family homes. The Washington State Department of Commerce assists local
governments in updating their ADU regulations consistent with state law.

        In 2026, HB 1345 amended RCW 36. 70A.696 and added a new section to chapter 36. 70A
RCW to establish a

        framework for detached ADUs outside urban growth areas. For counties planning under the
GMA that choose

        to allow detached ADUs outside UGAs. the law:

        . Allows counties to permit detached ADUs outside UGAs.

        . Limits the number ofADUs outside UGAs to one ADD per parcel, whether attached or
detached.

        . Requires development regulations addressing issues such as water supply, septic capacity,
size, siting,

        and subdivision limits

        . Requires code enforcement measures for unpermitted detached ADUs outside UGAs.

                                                     33
        . Requires counties to track and annually report completed detached ADD permits to
Commerce and

        account for completed and projected detached ADUs in their comprehensive plans.



        (ii) If the county is not a rural county as defined in RCW 43. 160. 020, the county may allocate
no more than

        seven percent of its rural population (housing) target to detached accessory dwelling units.



Executive Order 13132

       Americans with Disabilities Act Title II Regulations

       Executive Order 13132, 64 FR 43255, 3 CFR, 2000 Comp., p. 206, requires executive branch
agencies to consider whether a rule will have federalism implications. That is, the rulemaking agency
must determine whether the rule is likely to have substantial direct effects on State and local
governments, a substantial direct effect on the relationship between the Federal Government and the
States and localities, or a substantial direct effect on the distribution of power and responsibilities
among the different levels of government. If an agency believes that a rule is likely to have federalism
implications, it must consult with State and local elected officials about how to minimize or eliminate
the effects.

        Title II of the ADA covers State and local government programs, services, and activities and,
therefore, clearly has some federalism implications. State and local governments have been subject to
the ADA since 1991, and the majority have also been required to comply with the requirements of
section 504. hlence, the ADA and the title II regulation are not novel for State and local governments.
In its adoption of the 2010 Standards, the Department was mindful of its obligation to meet the
objectives of the ADA while also minimizing conflicts between State law and Federal interests.

 35*ioi Purpose and broad coverage.
       Americans with Disabilities Act Title II Re ulations




Americans with Disabilities Act Title II Regulations

       (a) Purpose. The purpose of this part is to implement subtitle A of title II of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U. S. C. 12131-12134), as amended by the ADA Amendments Act of 2008
(ADA Amendments Act) (Public Law 110-325, 122 Stat. 3553 (2008)), which prohibits discrimination on
the basis of disability by public entities.

                                                       34
        (b) Broad coverage. The primary purpose of the ADA Amendments Act is to make it easier for
people with disabilities to obtain protection under the ADA. Consistent with the ADA Amendments
Act's purpose of reinstating a broad scope of protection under the ADA, the definition of "disability"
in this part shall be construed broadly in favor of expansive coverage to the maximum extent
permitted by the terms of the ADA. The primary object of attention in cases brought under the ADA
should be whether entities covered under the ADA have complied with their obligations and whether
discrimination has occurred, not whether the individual meets the definition of disability. The question
of whether an individual meets the definition of disability under this part should not demand
extensive analysis

       Complete complaint means a written statement that contains the complainant's name and
address and describes the public entity's alleged discriminatory action in sufficient detail to inform the
agency of the nature and date of the alleged violation of this part. It shall be signed by the
complainant or by someone authorized to do so on his or her behalf. Complaints filed on behalf of
classes or third parties shall describe or identify (by name, if possible) the alleged victims of
discrimination.




        Public entity means -

        (1) Any State or local government;

       (2) Any department, agency, special purpose district, or other instrumentality of a State or
States or local government; and




Debbane v. City and County of San Francisco
Court: California Courts of Appeal
Docket: A172067(FirstAppellate District)
Opinion Date: September 11, 2026
Judge: Kathleen M. Banke
Areas of Law: Constitutional Law, Government & Administrative Law, Real Estate & Property Law, Zoning, Planning
& Land Use

The case involves a challenge to Proposition M, a San Francisco measure approved by voters in
2022 that imposed an annual "Empty Homes Tax" on owners of certain residential units kept vacant
for more than 182 days in buildings with more than two units. The stated aim was to discourage
prolonged vacancies and increase available housing. Plaintiffs included individuals and associations
representing property owners, who argued that Proposition M violated statutory and constitutional
protections, including property rights and familial relations, and was preempted by the Ellis Act, which
protects property owners' right to withdrawaccommodations from the rental market.

The San Francisco City & County Superior Court reviewed cross-motions for summary judgment.
Plaintiffs submitted declarations detailing how Proposition M would force them to either rent out units
against their wishes or pay substantial taxes, potentially resulting in financial hardship or effective

                                                      35
eviction. The City argued plaintiffs lacked standing and that their legal claims failed as a matter of law.
After briefing and a hearing, the Superior Court granted summary judgment for plaintiffs, holding that
Proposition M violated the Takings Clause, was preempted by the Ellis Act, burdened fundamental
liberty interests in familial relations, violated equal protection, and infringed upon the constitutional
right to privacy. The court entered judgment prohibiting the City from administering or enforcing
Proposition M.

The Court of Appeal of the State of California, First Appellate District, Division One, reviewed the
City's appeal. The appellate court analyzed the measure's conflict with the Ellis Act and concluded
that Proposition M imposed a "prohibitive price" on owners' right not to offer property for rent, directly
contravening the Act's protections. The court found that the Ellis Act preempts Proposition M and
affirmed the trial court's judgment, without reaching additional constitutional claims. The judgment
prohibiting enforcement of Proposition M was thus upheld




       WAG 173-22-035


       Identification of Wetlands




       Identification of wetlands and deliniiation of their boundaries pursuant to this Chapter shall be dune in
iiccordancewitli the approved Federalwetland deliniationmanual...



       The Federal Wetland Delineation Manual provides standardized procedures for identifying and
delineating jurisdictional wetlands in the United States, primarily for regulatory purposes under the
Clean Water Act. This manual is essential for federal agencies to ensure consistent application of
wetland regulations across various regions.

       This manual serves as a critical resource for wetland identification.


   .   Purpose - The manual outlines procedures for identifying jurisdictional wetlands under the
       Clean Water Act, ensuring regulatory compliance.
   .   Interagency Collaboration - Developed by a federal interagency panel, it incorporates input
       from multiple agencies to standardize wetland delineation.
   .   Indicator Species - It includes a list of plant species with assigned indicator statuses to help
       determine wetland presence.
   .   Regional Supplements - The manual is supplemented by regional guidelines that address
       specific ecological conditions across different areas

                                                        36
        Federal Manual for Identifying and Delineating Jurisdictional Wetlands



       "We, the undersigned, hereby adopt this Federal Manual as the technical basis for identifying
and delineating jurisdictional wetlands in the United States."




        htt s://www. fws. ov/sites/default/files/documents/2024-04/1342.                                       df

        Section 404 of the Clean Water Act



       1. 8. The following definition of wetland is the regulatory definition used by the EPA and CE for
administering the Section 404 permit program:




        Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater at a frequency and duration
sufficient to support, and that under nonnal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically
adaptedfor life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar
areas. (EPA, 40 CFR 230. 3 and CE, 33 CFR 328. 3)



        1. 9. This definition emphasizeshydrology vegetation, and suturated soils. The Section404 regulations
also deal with other "waters of the United States" such as open water areas, mud flats, coral reefs, riffle and pool
complexes, vegetated shallows, and other aquatic habitats. Food Security Act of 1985 1. 10.




       The following wetland definitionis usedby the SCS for identifyingwetlands on agricultural land in
assessingfanner eligibility for U. S. Department ofAgriculture program benefitsunder the "Swampbuster"
provision of this Act:




        Wetlands are defined as areas that have a predominance ofhydric soils and that are inundated or
saturated by surface or ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence ofhydrophyticvegetationtypically adaptedfor life in saturated soil
conditions, except lands in Alaskaidentifiedashaving a highpotential for agricultural development anda
predominanceofpennafrost soils. * (National Food Security Act Manual, 1988) *SpecialNote: The Emergency
Wetlands Resources Act of 1986 also contains this definition, but without the exception for Alaska.



                                                         37
        1. 11. This definition specifieshydrology, hydrophyticvegetation, andhydric soils.



         Any areathat meets the hydric soil criteria (definedby the NationalTechnical Committee for Hydric
Soils) is consideredto have a predominanceofhydric soils. The definition also makes a geographicexclusion
for Alaska, so that wetlands in Alaskawith a highpotential for agricultural development and a predominanceof
pennafrost soils are exempt from the requirements ofthe Act. Fish and Wildlife Service's Wetland
Classification System




        1 12. The FWSin cooperationwith other Federal agencies, State agencies, andprivate organizationsand
individuals developed a wetland definition for conducting an inventory of the Nation's wetlands.



       This definition waspublishedin the FWS'spublication "ClassificationofWetlandsandDeepwater
Habitats of the United States" (Cowardin, et al. 1979):




        Wetlandsare lands transitional betweenterrestrial and aquatic systems wherethe watertable is usually
at or nearthe surfaceor the land is covered by shallowwater. Forpurposes ofthis classificationwetlandsmust
have one or more ofthe following three attributes: (1) at leastperiodically, the land supports predominantly
hydrophytes, (2) the substrate is predominantlyundrained hydric soil, and (3) the substrate is nonsoil andis
saturated with water or covered by shallow water at some time during the growing season of each year.



         1. 13. This definition includesboth vegetated andnonvegetated wetlands, recognizingthat some types of
wetlands lack vegetation (e. g., mud flats, sand flats, rocky shores, gravel beaches, and sand bars). The
classification system also defines "deepwaterhabitats" as "permanently flooded lands lying below the
deepwaterboundary ofwetlands. " Deepwaterhabitatsinclude estuarine and marine aquaticbeds (similar to
"vegetated shallows" of Section 404). Open waters below extreme low water at spring tides in salt and brackish
tidal areas and usuallybelow 6.6 feet in inland areasand freshwatertidal areas are also included in deepwater
habitats. Summary of Federal Definitions




         1. 14. The CH. F:PA.and SCSwetland definitionsinclude only areasthat are vegetatedundernormal
circumstances, whilethe FWSdefinition encompassesboth vegetated andnonvegetated areas. Except for the
FWSinclusion ofnonvegetated areas as wetlands andthe exemption for Alaska in the SCS definition, all four
wetlanddefinitionsarc conceptually the same; they all includethreebasicelements - hydrology, vegetation. and
soils - for identifyingwetlands.




                                                          38
       HUD 2026 best practice permitting reforms


       1. Request fee reductions or expiditedreview under federal guiidance

       2. Use modular - manufactured units

       3. Eliminate arbitrary andunreasonablecode standards

       4. Local add-onrequirements beyond state codes

       5. ADU used for hardshippurposes

       6. Reduceregulatory barriers, shorten timelines, lower costs



       Key Standards




       1 Shorten processing

       2. private 3rd party reviewers to conductplan reviews andinspections to speed approvals.




       Washington State Department of Ecology




       3. 6. 1 How Wetlands Are Defined Wetlands are defined using well established language that is
generally consistent between federal and Washington State laws. In some jurisdictions, all lands that
meet the definition of wetland are regulated. However, it is not unusual for a jurisdiction to
differentiate within its regulations between wetlands (i. e., biological wetlands) and regulated wetlands
(i. e., wetlands that they intend to regulate). The definition of what constitutes a regulated wetland may
vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.



       Delineation of wetland boundaries is conducted according to either the federal or state
delineation manual. These manuals are consistent and, when applied correctly, will result in the same

                                                     39
wetland boundary. In the State of Washington, however, local jurisdictions are required by state law
to use the state manual (ROW 36. 70A. 175, Chapter 173.22. 080 WAC).



       As discussed in Chapter 5 of Volume 1, certain wetland types are sometimes excluded from
regulation. These can include small wetlands, isolated wetlands, and wetlands that are designated as
Prior Converted Croplands. The scientific literature makes clear that small wetlands and isolated
wetlands provide important functions and does not provide any rationale for excluding these wetlands
from regulation. Little scientific information is available on Prior Converted Croplands that are
wetlands, but there is no evidence to suggest that they are unimportant in providing wetland functio



       Authors who synthesized the literature on the effectiveness of buffer widths suggest buffers
between 25 and 75 feet for wetlands with minimal wildlife habitat functions and adjacent low-intensity
land uses; 50 to 150 feet for wetlands with moderate habitat functions or adjacent high-intensity land
uses; and 150 to 300 feet for wetlands with high habitat functions. Effective buffer widths for
protecting water quality ranged from 25 to 50 feet for 60% removal of pollutants, to 150 to 200 feet for
80% removal of pollutants.



        Enhancement of wetlands is also frequently used, but few studies have examined its
effectiveness. Limited studies from Washington indicated a low level of success among enhanced
wetlands, primarily due to a minimal gain in functions in the timeframe between construction of the
mitigation project and the evaluation of gain in functions. It may simply take longer for a gain in
functions to appear (15 to 20 years rather than 5 to 10 years)




       In Washington State, 14 counties have adopted a 100-foot buffer requirement for
wetlands. There are 39 counties in the state. 64% have buffers less than 100 feet.




      Pierce County



      Moderate level of function - 25 feet - 60 feet - 100 feet............ 20-28 points




      Not meeting above criteria - 10 feet -10 feet - 30 feet

                                                     40
      Kitsap County



Category of Wetland      Base Buffer Width
Category I               200 feet
Category II              100 feet
Category III             50 feet
Category IV              30 feet



      King County



      Category I Wetlands - These wetlands are the most sensitive and require a buffer of 150 feet.
      Category II Wetlands - These wetlands typically require a buffer of 100 feet.
      Category III Wetlands - Standard buffer width is generally 80 feet.
      Category IV Wetlands - Buffers can be as narrow as 25 feet, depending on



      dark County



      Category I Wetlands - Require a minimum buffer width of 150 feet to protect their ecological
      functions.
      Category II Wetlands - Typically need a buffer of at least 100 feet.
      Category III Wetlands - Generally require a buffer of 50 feet.
      Category IV Wetlands - May have a reduced buffer width, often around 25




      SHORELINE MANAGEMENT ACT OF 1971



                                                  41
       Home / State laws and rules / RCWs / Title 90 / Cha ter 90. 58 / Section 90. 58. 030

       90.58.020 « 90. 58.030 » 90.58.040

RCW 90. 58. 030

      The following shall not be considered substantial developments for the purpose of this
chapter:

     (i) Normal maintenance or repair of existing structures or developments, including
damage by accident, fire, or elements;

       (ii) Construction of the normal protective bulkhead common to single-family
residences;

       (iii) Emergency construction necessary to protect property from damage by the
elements:

      (iv) Construction and practices normal or necessary for farming, irrigation, and
ranching activities, including agricultural service roads and utilities on shorelands.......




RCW 90. 58. 380

Adoption of wetland manual.


       The department by rule shall adopt a manual for the delineation of wetlands under
this chapter that implements and is consistent with the 1987 manual in use on January 1,
1995, by the United States army corps of engineers and the United States environmental
protection agency. If the corps of engineers and the environmental protection agency adopt
changes to or a different manual, the department shall consider those changes and may
adopt rules implementing those changes.



Prior Converted Cropland Under the Clean Water Act


The CWA does not define or mention PCC explicitly. However, CWA regulations exclude PCC from
the definition ofWOTUS and therefore the act's permitting requirements. In 1990, the Corps issued
Regulatory Guidance Letter 90-07, which created one of the first direct links to Swampbuster. It

                                                 42
clarified that PCC, as defined by U. S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Natural Resources
Conservation Service (NRCS) in its 1988 National FSA Manual, are not subject to regulation under
CWA Section 404. The manual defines PCC as "wetlands which were both manipulated (drained or
otherwise physically altered to remove excess water from the land) and cropped before 23 December
1985, to the extent that they no longer exhibit important wetland values."



Displaying title 7, up to date as of 9/29/2026. Title 7 was last amended 9/29/2026

§ 12. 33 Use of wetland and converted wetland.
  (a) The provisions of § 12. 32(b)(2) are intended to protect remaining values, acreage, and functions
  of the wetlands described therein. Persons may continue to farm such wetlands under natural
  conditions or as they did prior to December 23, 1985. However, no action can be taken to increase
 effects on the water regime beyond that which existed on such lands on or before December 23,
 1985, unless NRCS determines the effect on losing remaining wetland values would be minimal
 under § 12. 5(b)(1)(v). If, after December23, 1985, changes due to human activity occurred in the
 watershed and resulted in an increase in the water regime on a person's land, the person may be
 allowed to adjust the existing drainage system to accommodate the increased water regime on the
 condition that the person affected by this additional water provides NRCS with appropriate
 documentation of the increased water regime, the causes thereof, and the planned changes in the
 existing drainage system. In order to maintain program eligibility, a person must provide sufficient
 documentation and receive approval from NRCS prior to making any changes that will have the
 effect of increasing the capacity of the existing drainage systems.




7 CFR 12. 32 - Converted wetland identification criteria.




7 CFR 12. 5-- Exemption.




                                                       43
(b) Unless otherwise provided in this part, the production of an agricultural commodity on land
determined by NRCS to be prior-converted cropland is exempted by law from these regulations for
the area which was converted. Maintenance or improvement of drainage systems on prior-converted
croplands are not subject to this rule so long as the prior-converted croplands are used for the
production of food, forage, or fiber and as long as such actions do not alter the hydrology of nearby
wetlands or do not make possible the production of an agricultural commodity on these other
wetlands. Other wetlands under this section means any natural wetland, farmed wetland, farmed-
wetland pasture, or any converted wetland that is not exempt under 12. 5 of this art




7 CFR 12. 5 -- Exemption.




(c) Abandonment is the cessation for five consecutive years of management or maintenance
operations related to the use of a farmed wetland or a farmed-wetland pasture. Unless the criteria for
receiving an exemption under § 12. 5(b)f1Viii) are met, such land is considered to be abandoned
when the land meets the wetland criteria of     12. 31 . In order for documentation of site conditions to
be considered adequate under § 12. 5(b)(1)(iii), the affected person must provide to NRCS available
information concerning the extent of hydrological manipulation, the extent of woody vegetation, and
the history of use. In accordance with § 12. 5(b)f1)(iii), participation in a USDA approved wetland
restoration, set-aside, diverted acres, or similar programs shall not be deemed to constitute
abandonment.




7 CFR 12.31 -- Wetland identification procedures.




                                                    44
7 CFR 12. 5 "Exemption.




(d) The maintenance of the drainage capacity or any alteration or manipulation, including the
maintenance of a natural waterwayoperated and maintained as a drainage outlet, that affects the
circulation and flow of water made to a farmed wetland or farmed-wetland pasture would not cause a
person to be determined to be ineligible under this part, provided that the maintenance does not
exceed the scope and effect of the original alteration or manipulation, as determined by NRCS, and
provided that the area is not abandoned. Any resultant conversion of wetlands is to be at the
minimum extent practicable, as determined by NRCS.




Environmental Associations
Climate and Elevation

Oregon white oak grows in diverse climates, ranging from the cool, humid conditions near the
coast to the hot, dry environments in inland valleys and foothill woodlands. Records from 48
climatic observation stations within or bordering its range indicate that Oregon white oak has
endured temperature extremes of-34° to 47° C (-30° to 116° F) (45, 47, 53, 77). Average annual
temperatures range from 8° to 18° C (46° to 64° F); average temperatures in January, from -11°
to 10° C (13° to 50° F); and in July, from 16° to 29° C (60° to 84° F).

Average annual precipitation ranges from 170 mm (6. 7 in) at Ellensburg, WA, east of the
Cascades to 2630 mm (103. 5 in) at Cougar, WA, west of the Cascades. Precipitation at the
southern end of the range of Oregon white oak (Tehachapi) averages 270 mm (10. 6 in), similar to
that at northerly locations east of the Cascades-Ellensburg, Yakima, and Goldendale in
Washington and The Dalles and Dufur in Oregon. Average annual snowfall ranges from little, if
any, at several locations to 417 cm (164 in) at Mineral in Tehama County, CA. Average
precipitation in the growing season (April through September) ranges from 30 mm (1. 2 in) at
Tehachapi, CA, and Ellensburg, WA, to 630 mm (24. 8 in) at Cougar, WA. Length of average
frost-free season (above 0° C; 32° F) ranges from 63 days at Burney in Shasta County, CA, to
282 days at Victoria, BC.

Soils and Geology
Oregon white oak can grow on a wide variety of sites, but on good sites it is often crowded out by
species that grow faster and taller. Hence, Oregon white oak is most common on sites that
are too exposed or droughty for other tree species during at least part of the year, including
inland valleys and foothills, south slopes, unglaciated and glaciated rocky ridges, and a narrow
                                                  45
transition zone east of the Cascades between conifer forest and treeless, dissected plateau
Although usually considered a xeric species, Oregon white oak also commonly occurs in very
moist locations-on flood plains, on heavy clay soils, and on river terraces. These locations appear
to have two common characteristics-standing water or a shallow water table during a lengthy wet
season and gravelly or heavy clay surface soils that probably are droughty during the extended
dry season. The distribution of Oregon white oak gives evidence that it can withstand both
lengthy flooding and drought.


htt s:// is. clark. wa. ov/ma sonline/?site=Environmental&ext=
1


Wetland Guidance for Critical Areas Ordinance (CAO)
Updates Western and Eastern Washington Shorelands and Environmental Assistance
Program Washington State Department of Ecology Olympia, Washington
October 2022, Publication #22-06-014


htt s://a     s. ecolo . wa. ov/ ublications/documents/2206014.     df

Definition of wetlands

In designating wetlands for regulatory purposes, the GMA specifies the definition of wetlands
as follows:

"Wetland" or "wetlands" means areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or
ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated
soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas.
Wetlands do not include those artificial wetlands intentionally created from non-wetland sites,
including, but not limited to, irrigation and drainage ditches, grass-lined swales, canals,
detention facilities, wastewater treatment facilities, farm ponds, and landscape amenities, or
those wetlands created after July 1, 1990, that were unintentionally created as a result of the
construction of a road, street, or highway. Wetlands may include those artificial wetlands
intentionally created from non-wetland areas created to mitigate conversion of wetlands.
(RCW 36-70A-030[31]30)

Wetlands are subject to a local government's regulatory authority if they meet the criteria in this
definition. This includes non-federally regulated wetlands (sometimes referred to as isolated
wetlands). The GMA requires local governments to designate and protect wetlands and grants them
the authority to do so-regardless of federal jurisdiction.

Wetland delineation

State laws require that wetlands protected under the GMA and the Shoreline Management Act (SMA)
be delineated using the U. S. Army Corps of Engineers' (Corps) manual (U. S. Army Corps of
Engineers, 1987) that is adopted into statute (RCW 36-70A-175; 31 RCW 90-58-38032

                                                 46
The regional supplements are used in conjunction with the federal delineation manual. To maintain
consistency between the state and federal delineation of wetlands, Ecology updated the regulations
(WAC 173-22-03533) to state that delineations shall be done according to the currently approved
federal manual and regional supplements. Therefore, the currently approved federal manual and
applicable regional supplements (Western Mountains Valleys and Coasts, Arid West, or both) must
be used for delineating wetlands in GMAjurisdictions, and local governments should refer to this
requirement in their CAOs

Local governments typically use specific criteria to determine wetland status, including the presence
of hydric soils, hydrophytic vegetation, and hydrology. These criteria help assess whether an area
qualifies as a wetland under regulatory frameworks such as the Clean Water Act.

Criteria for Wetland Determinations

Understanding the criteria used for wetland determinations is essential for compliance.
  . Hydric Soils - Wetlands must contain soils that are saturated or flooded long enough to
       develop anaerobic conditions, indicating wetland characteristics.
   .   hlydrophytic Vegetation - The presence of plant species adapted to wet conditions is a key
       indicator of wetlands.
   .   Hydrology - Wetlands must exhibit hydrological conditions that support the presence of water
       at or near the surface for a significant part of the growing season.
   .   Regulatory Frameworks - Local governments often follow guidelines set by federal laws, such
       as the Clean Water Act, to ensure consistency in wetland determinations.

Local Control: Local governments often have discretion in their CAOs to exempt certain
artificial, non-compensatory wetlands from development restrictions. Washington State
Department of Ecology (. gov)Washington State Department of Ecology (. gov) +4 It is
essential to contact local planning departments, as they hold authority over critical areas
ordinances (CAOs)

   .   Local Control: Local governments often have discretion in their CAOs to exempt certain
       artificial, non-compensatory wetlands from development restrictions.

       WashingtonState Department of Ecology(. gov)+4

It is essential to contact local planning departments, as they hold authority over critical areas
ordinances CAOs




HB 2418 - Concerning Permit Review Processes
HB 2418 requires cities, towns, and counties lannin under the GMA to evaluate residential permit
applications using the zoning and land-use rules that were in effect when the application was
submitted rather than allowing rules to change mid-process. It also clarifies that a determination of

                                                        47
completeness is procedural only, so local governments cannot use it to delay or deny projects
through de facto substantive review.



htt s://clark. wa. ov/sites/default/files/de   t/files/communit -
 lannin /Shoreline%20Master%20Pro ram/ORD2006-08-03 CriticalLands-ScrivErrors. df


htt s://clark.wa. ov/sites/default/files/de t/files/communit - lannin /ORD2006-06-
09 CriticalLands. df


The Clark County wetland ordinance was updated in 2006 under Ordinance 2006-05-27 to
serve as a key part of the Critical Areas Ordinance (CAO) for wetland protection. The
ordinance aimed for "no net loss" of wetland functions, focused on protecting high-quality
wetlands, and encouraged restoration of degraded ones. The ordinance also introduced
specific wetland buffer requirements to protect habitat functions and was subsequently
updated in 2014 and further refined in subsequent years to align with new science and
regulations.

Purpose and Goals
   .   No Net Loss:

       The ordinance's primary goal was to ensure no net loss of wetland functions within the
       county.
   .   Protection and Restoration:

       It sought to provide high levels of protection for higher-quality wetlands and encourage the
       restoration of degraded or lower-quality wetlands.
   .   Reasonable Use:
       While aiming for protection, the ordinance also intended to allow for the reasonable use of
       private property


Key Elements of the 2006 Ordinance
   .   Wetland Buffers:

       A significant component of the 2006 updates included establishing specific buffer zones
       around wetlands to protect their ecological functions.
   .   Categorization:
       The ordinance likely used a system to categorize wetlands (e. g., the 2014 updates
       mentioned protecting higher-quality wetlands) to apply different standards of protection.
  .    Habitat Protection:

                                                   48
       A focus was placed on protecting habitat functions associated with wetlands, necessitating
       new buffer requirements to safeguard these areas.

Evolution of the Ordinance

   .   The 2006 ordinance was an important step, but it was not the final version.
   .   Subsequent updates were made in 2014 and later in 2022 to incorporate new scientific
       findings and update standards.
   .   Counties are required to review and update their Critical Areas Ordinances periodically, with
       dark County following this process to ensure ongoing compliance with state and federal
       guidelines.

How to Find the Actual Ordinance Text

To access the complete text of the 2006 ordinance (or its successors), you would need to
look for records of dark County's Critical Areas Ordinances, specifically CCC Cha ter
40. 450,
on the Clark County website.


htt s://clark.wa. ov/sites/default/files/de t/files/communit -
 lannin /Shoreline%20Master%20Pro ram/ORD2006-05-27 Wetlands, df


The federal government recognizes raising horses as an agricultural activity,
particularly when it's done for commercial purposes like breeding.

Here's why:

   .   Horses are classified as livestock: The USDA and various federal regulations classify horses
       as livestock, similar to cattle, sheep, and other domestic animals raised or used on a farm.

   .   Commercial horse operations as farms: Operations that breed, raise, and sell horses (or
       related products like semen) are typically recognized as farms by the USDA and are eligible for
       various agricultural programs and benefits.

   .   Tax treatment: Commercial horse breeders and owners are generally treated as farmers under
       federal tax laws, enabling them to enjoy certain tax advantages associated with agricultural
       enterprises, such as deductions for feed and veterinary expenses.

   .   Agricultural support and regulation: Federal and state agriculture departments oversee the
       care and regulation of horses and horse-related activities. The USDA, for instance, provides
       funding for research into equine diseases and enforces relevant acts.


                                                    49
    .   Hours of Service (HOS) exemptions: The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA)
        considers horses as agricultural commodities, allowing for specific HOS exemptions for
        drivers transporting them.

It's important to note

    .   Distinction from recreational use: While commercial breeding and raising of horses are
        considered agricultural, recreational activities like pleasure riding or non-commercial boarding
        might be treated differently under specific regulations or for tax purposes.

    .   Variations in definitions: It is important to note that the specific criteria for defining an
        operation as a "farm" or "agricultural enterprise" may vary slightly between different agencies
        or programs, particularly when considering factors like the size of the operation or the primary
        source of income.

In conclusion, for the most part, especially in the context of commercial breeding and raising, the
federal government recognizes raising horses as an agricultural activity.


Horses officially categorized as livestock, thanks to
2018 Farm Bill

Forwarded Message --
From: James H Malinowski <jim.malinowski@icloud.com>
To: Carol Levanen <cnldental@yahoo.com>
Cc: Silliman Peter <peter. silliman@clark. wa. gov>; David Madore <david. madore@clark. wa. gov>; Jeanne Stewart
<jeanne. stewart@clark. wa. gov>; Tom Mielke <tom. mielke@clark. wa. gov>; Susan Rasmussen
<sprazz@outlook.com>; Leah Higgins <leahnwhomes@gmail.com>; Rick Dunning <ralan1953@gmail.com>; Rita
Dietrich <billrita@pacifier.com>; Jerry Olson <wcrolsons@tds.net>; Fred Pickering <fredp@yacolt.com>; Jim
Malinowski <j.malinowski@ieee.org>; Frank White <firfarmer@yahoo.com>; Benjamin Moss
<benjaminmoss@johnlscott. com>; Lonnie Moss <mossback44@gmail. com>; Melinda Zamora
<mzamora1001@gmail.com>; Nick Redinger<nickredinger@hotmail.com>; Curt Massie
<cmassie331@gmail. com>; Marcus Becker <marcusb35@msn. com>; Zachary Mclsaac
<zmcisaac@ashbaughbeal.com>; Carol Levanen <cnldental@yahoo.com>; dark County Citizens United Inc.
<cccuinc@yahoo. com>
Sent: Friday, February 6, 2015 5:49 PM
Subject: Re: Merriman 200 foot conservation covenant (For the record)


I, along with a couple of other CCCU members, was a member of the Habitat Ordinance Task Force.
Those of us representing rural citizens did not believe the buffers established in the ordinance were
                                                       50
justified by best available science but did go along with the excessive buffer widths under pressure
from WDFW.We were promised that the resultant riparian zones would be implemented flexibly with
county staff working with landowners forwin/win solutions. Instead staff has treated the buffers as no
touch buffers even if the buffers covered 90 to 100% of a parcel.


There was a provision in the ordinance for a conservation easement which would be entirely
voluntary. This I believe is another example of the staff claiming provisions that are not in the law
and/or ordinances. Rural folks deserve better from our county government.

Jim Malinowski
Am boy
Sent from my iPad




September 6, 2024


Dear Members of the dark County Council:


We represent dark County Citizens United (CCCU), a nonprofit organization representing
approximately 6, 000 citizens of dark County. Based on numerous complaints, CCCU is concerned
that dark County is repeatedly violating people's rights, resulting from either intentional action or at
least a failure to train staff adequately. The problem arises in four general categories.


1. Erroneously designating critical areas.

The first is that County staff will simply declare portions of rural land to constitute a critical area, such
as wetland, even though the area fails to meet all three criteria necessary for constituting a wetland.
This includes fabrication and/or mischaracterization of critical areas, wetlands, or streams to require a
buffer of some sort, resulting in a mandatory covenant. This has occurred on so many occasions and
called to staffs' attention that it appears to be not merely ignorance, but a concerted effort to declare
as much land as possible as a critical area with the expectation that few will challenge the
declaration. I expect that the expectation is right-many people are unlikely to realize that a staff
member's declaration of a critical area is wrong. However, one would expect that County staff would
be knowledgeable and fair and not take advantage of individuals' lack of understanding of wetland
and critical area requirements.


It is apparent that staff is either not knowledgeable or not fair and the latter seems more likely in that
the errors of wrong declarations of critical areas have been addressed. By now, surely staff must
                                                      51
know what they are doing. Although CCCU has called this to the attention of the council previously,
we are doing so again. Because staff is following a consistent illegal approach of designating land as
critical areas which does not qualify as a critical area, and the County Council is aware, unless a
change is made it appears that the County has established a policy of ignoring the legal requirements
for critical area determinations in an effort to preserve as much private land as possible.


2. Improperly using covenants to create County-owned property interests.

The second problem relates to using covenants to preserve critical areas when land use permits are
issued. The covenants appear to bind the property owner to a version of the county code in place at
the time the permit is issued without regard to the fact that critical area regulations including buffers
may change over time. It is dark County Councilors September 6, 2024 Page 2 also troubling that
the County is not merely putting notice on title that certain critical area regulations apply but are
requiring a covenant which is its own interest in property. That is, the County requires property
owners to transfer a property interest to the County to obtain permit approval.

I have also seen these covenants refer to the area subject to the restrictions to be based on a map
that is only an approximation. It is one thing to require a notice on title that there may be a critical
area on site and include an approximate location. It is another thing altogether to issue a property
interest (a covenant) to the County that says that the geographic area is merely an approximation.
The County would do well to no longer require covenants that appear to be binding, conveying a
separate interest in property that is so ill-defined.


3. Lulling property owners into a false sense of security.


The third problem is a tactic which I have seen in other jurisdictions, but only rarely. That is, County
staff will make some decision which is appealable, and the property owner will contact staff in the
hopes of correcting a mistaken determination, as in the declaration of wetlands or streams that do not
exist. Believing that staff would informally work to correct the situation, the property owner waits, but
hears nothing definitive from staff until the appeal deadline runs. At that point, staff is no longer willing
to work with the property owner because the County has a final determination of something that is
untrue but can't be appealed.

It is hard to imagine that the dark County Council would believe that this treatment is good public
policy. It would be far fairer for the County to raise issues for this first time in a manner which does
not result in an appealable decision so that the private party and staff member can discuss the issue.
When it appears that there can be no agreement, then staff could issue an appealable decision. The
current practice misleads people into thinking that errors can be corrected informally when County


                                                     52
staff has no intention of doing so. While we expect the County to enforce its land use regulations, it
should not be doing so by trickery.

4. Ignoring the County's obligations for management of stormwater runoff under the Clean
Water Act.


The fourth problem is that dark County is failing to live up to its responsibilities underthe Clean
Water Act for managing stormwater running off public roads. There are County roads without any, or,
inadequate ditches and it appears stormwater runoff is intentionally being discharged onto private
property. In essence, the County is using private property to attempt to handle stormwater from public
roads when it is the County's responsibility. The County is neglecting its own responsibility and
imposing the duty to manage stormwater onto private dark County Councilors September 6, 2024
Page 3 landowners. This is inappropriate. The Couty must manage stormwater without routing the
discharge from roads onto private lands. The County is obligated to use Best Management Practices
under the Stormwater Management Manual for Wester Washington. But the County is forcing private
landowners to provide the conveyance systems, to mitigate with trees and plantings, and then to
provide a conservation covenant. As stated above, these covenants are problematic for landowners
and the County


We draw these issues to your attention because the council has ultimate responsibility and
opportunity to correct ongoing practices which are neither good public policy nor legal, dark County
Citizens United, Inc., believes all covenant language in the Wetland and Habitat Ordinance should be
removed, retroactive to 2008. Instead, a three-year monitoring program might meet the County's
desires to confirm that mitigation is working without requiring conveyance of a covenant. We would be
happy to discuss this further if you so desire.


Sincerely,


Richard M. Stephens


Richard M. Stephens
Attorney
stephens@sklegal. pro




Pacific Legal Foundation



                                                   53
Shoreline oermit conditions violate the unconstitutional conditions doctrine if they
automatically and uniformly demand the dedication of a conservation easement and are
imposed without site-specific considerations.
The provisions of Washington's Shoreline Management Act represent a compromise
between the interests of government, environmentalists, industry groups, and property
owners. Judicial elevation of environmental interests above all others destroys the
careful balance intended by the legislature.
Government agencies cannot demand money in exchange for a permit when that money
isn't being used to take care of a harm caused by the development of the property.
Because the off-site improvement of 50 acres of wetlands on government lands was not
related in nature or extent to the alleged impact of Mr. Koontz's proposed development
on little more than three acres of his own property, the permit condition violated the
unconstitutional conditions doctrine of Nollan and Dolan.




 ciive: Liti aiion is ongoing.




Located directly across Puget Sound from Seattle, the City of Bainbridge Island
is a residential suburb. Despite the fact that its shorelines have been fully
developed for decades, in 2014 the city updated its Shoreline Management
Plan (SMP) to require that any "human activity" with the potential of disturbing
vegetation within the shoreline be approved by the government and be subject
to numerous highly contentious conditions, including requirements that the
owner execute a conservation easement of sufficient size to "enhance" and
"restore" the marine shoreline. The city then declared it to be a crime
punishable by jail time and hefty fines for anyone to engage in such "human
activities" on their own property without prior government approval.

Concerned that this new law would deprive all shoreline residents of their
property and privacy rights, a group of Bainbridge Island residents formed
Preserve Responsible Shoreline Management (PRSM) to fight the bold
incursion into assault on individual rights.

The city claims that it has the right to strip shoreline residents of their rights
under a recent appellate court decision holding that Washington's legislature,
in enacting the Shoreline Management Act (SMA), explicitly rendered property

                                     54
rights "secondary" to the public's interest in the environment. That decision is
wrong. The Constitution cannot be thrown away, whether by an act of
legislation or a court decision. It is the fundamental law of the land.

PLF represents PRSM in a lawsuit that challenges the constitutionality of
Bainbridge Island's SMP. Specifically, the lawsuit claims that Bainbridge
Island's demand that residents give the public a conservation easement on
their land in order to secure a permit approval is not supported by the scientific
record and takes more than is necessary to mitigate any negative impacts
caused by development.

The appellate court ruled to bar PRSM from putting on critical evidence
showing that the city's demands will cause constitutional injuries. PLF has
sought reconsideration of that decision. But if the appellate court denies their
right to put on evidence, it would limit a property owner's ability to enforce his
or her property rights in the courts. PRSM argues that the Due Process Clause
of the U. S. Constitution requires courts to allow a party to put on its own
evidence-an argument that is supported by numerous U. S. Supreme Court
decisions




Represented by PLF, the Nollans filed their lawsuit Nollan v. California Coastal
Commission challenging the California Coastal Commission's property
exactions as unlawful takings of property without just compensation. They won
in trial court but lost in appellate court, and the California Supreme Court
declined to take the case, so in 1987, Nollan v. California Coastal Commission
went before the United States Supreme Court and the Nollans finally were
vindicated. The Court struck down the California Coastal Commission's
demands for land as unconstitutional and an "out-and-out plan of extortion."




Justice Anton Scalia's majority ruling in Nollan v. California Coastal Commission
held that compelling a property taking for a public purpose is legal only if it has
a direct connection to some harm caused by the development project, and that
no such connection existed in the Nollans' case.

                                   55
Nollan v. California Coastal Commission's majority opinion concluded by saying
that if California "wants an easement across the Nollans' property, it must pay
for it."

Nollan v. California Coastal Commission marked PLF's first Supreme Court win
and was a great victory for Patrick and Marilyn and property owners across the
country. It established the "essential nexus test" used in unconstitutional
conditions analyses. That is, from that date forward, all permit conditions
imposed on land development must be related to actual harms caused by the
development.

The impact was swift and lasting. The California Coastal Commission's rule
was struck down in California and new favorable law was created in an
additional 29 states. And between law review articles and court decisions, the
Nollan v. California Coastal Commission victory has been cited over 9, 000 times
and is taught in every law school curriculum on property rights.



The Supreme Court's 1987 decision in Nollan v California Coastal Commission
struck down certain government demands for land in exchange for a permit as
"out-and-out plan of extortion. " The ruling, PLF's first Supreme Court win,
determined that all permit conditions imposed on land development must
relate to actual harm caused by the development. The Court expanded Nollan's
scope in 1994, ruling in Do/anv Crt ofTi ard that government demands must
be sufficiently proportional to the actual impacts of the proposed use.




Then in 2013, the Court extended the precedents set in both Nollan and Dolan
to permit fees in another PLF case, Koontz v. St. Johns River Water
Mana ement District. That is, the government cannot weaponize the permitting
process to extort more land or money from property owners than is
appropriate.

As powerful as the precedent trio has been in curbing unconstitutional
permitting conditions, however, some lower courts found a legal loophole for
state and local governments. Rather than focusing on the legal doctrine
                                  56
             established by Nollan, Dolan, and Koontz, some courts focused on the fact that
             the permit conditions at issue in those cases were ultimately imposed by
             bureaucrats as part of a permit review process. Those courts, which include
             the California courts, adopted a rule that limited the nexus and proportionality
             tests to conditions imposed administratively-exempting legislative demands
             from the constitutional doctrine. That loophole is critical because El Dorado
             County imposed its permit fees legislatively, as part of a countywide land use
             overhaul adopted in 2004.

             Supreme Court precedent recognizes that, while local governments can charge
             fees to mitigate for actual public impacts caused by a private project,
             demanding property in an amount that goes above and beyond that mitigation
             standard is a taking. This is true whether imposed by bureaucrats or
             lawmakers, but until George brought his case, the Supreme Court had yet to
             say so.

             On April 12, 2024, the Supreme Court unanimously ruled in George's favor.
             "[T]here is no basis for affording property rights less protection in the hands of
             legislators than administrators, " Justice Amy Coney Barren wrote in the
             decision. "The Takings Clause applies equally to both-which means that it
             prohibits legislatures and agencies alike from imposing unconstitutional
             conditions on land-use permits."




             Sheetz v. El Dorado County was originally filed and litigated by former PLF
             attorney Paul Beard II, who successfully argued Koontz. Paul is now a partner
             at Pierson Ferdinand and argued the case at the Supreme Court, with PLF
             attorneys as co-counsel.




         MRSC - Growth ManagementAct Basics


A major feature of the bill is the creation of stronger accountability and timeline requirements for
permit reviews. Utility districts and other agencies must complete their reviews within the same
deadlines that apply to local governments. If these entities miss those deadlines, they must refund

                                                   57
20% of the review fee charged to the applicant. The bill also allows applicants to voluntarily waive
these deadlines if they choose.
By June 2027, local governments are required to establish integrated permit review processes,
designate a single permit-responsible official with authority to issue final administrative decisions, and
assign a single point of contact for each permit application.




WAC 222-16-035

Wetland typing system.
No agency filings affecting this section since 2003

      *The department in cooperation with the departments offish and wildlife, and
ecology, and affected Indian tribes shall classify wetlands. The wetlands will be classified in
order to distinguish those which require wetland management zones and those which do
not. Wetlands which require wetland management zones shall be identified using the
following criteria:
      *(1) "Nonforested wetlands" means any wetland or portion thereof that has, or if the
trees were mature would have, a crown closure of less than 30 percent.
       (a) "Type A Wetland" classification shall be applied to all nonforested wetlands which:
       (i) Are greater than 0. 5 acre in size, including any acreage of open water where the
water is completely surrounded by the wetland; and
      (ii) Are associated with at least 0. 5 acre of ponded or standing open water. The open
water must be present on the site for at least 7 consecutive days between April 1 and
October 1 to be considered for the purposes of these rules; or
      (b) "Type B Wetland" classification shall be applied to all other nonforested wetlands
greater than 0. 25 acre.
      *(2) "Forested wetland" means any wetland or portion thereof that has, or if the trees
were mature would have, a crown closure of 30 percent or more.
      *(3) "All forested and nonforested bogs" greater than 0. 25 acres shall be considered
Type A Wetlands.
      *(4) For the purposes of determining acreage to classify or type wetlands under this
section, approximate determination using aerial photographs and maps, including the
national wetlands inventory, shall be sufficient. In addition, the innermost boundary of the
wetland management zone on Type A or B Wetlands may be determined by either of two
methods: Delineation of the wetland edge, or identifying the point where the crown cover
changes from less than 30 percent to 30 percent or more.
                                                    58
[Statutory Authority: Chapter 34.05 RCW, RCW76. 09.040, [76. 09J050, [76. 09. J370,
76. 13. 120(9). WSR01-12-042, § 222-16-035, filed 5/30/01, effective 7/1/01. Statutory
Authority: RCW 76. 09. 040 and chapter 3405 RCW. WSR 97-24-091, § 222-16-035, filed
12/3/97, effective 1/3/98; WSR 94-17-033, § 222-16-035, filed 8/10/94, effective 8/13/94.
Statutory Authority: RCW 76.09.040, 76.09. 170 and chapter 34. 05 RCW.WSR 94-01-134,
§ 222-16-035, filed 12/20/93, effective 1/1/94. Statutory Authority: RCW 76. 09. 040,
76. 09. 050 and chapter 34. 05 RCW. WSR 92-15-011, § 222-16-035, filed 7/2/92, effective
8/2/92.]




In Washington State, a wetland must be inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater at a
frequency and duration sufficient to support vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil
conditions. This generally means that the area should be seasonally active in more years than half on
a long-term basis.

Wetland Definition and Requirements

Understanding the criteria for wetlands in Washington is essential.
   .   Inundation Duration - Wetlands must be inundated or saturated at a frequency and duration
       sufficient to support specific vegetation.
   .   Vegetation Support - The area should support a prevalence of vegetation adapted for
       saturated soil conditions.
   .   Seasonal Activity - A wet and must have sources of water that are seasonally active in more
       than half of the years.
   .   Regulatory Framework - Section 401 of federal law allows states to regulate wetlands to
       ensure they meet water quality standards

In Washington State, a wetland must have open water present for at least 7 consecutive days
between April 1 and October 1 to be classified as a wetland.

Wetland Classification Criteria

Understanding the criteria for wetland classification is essential.
   .   Inundation Requirement - A wetland must have open water for at least 7 consecutive days
       during the specified period.
   .   Seasonal Activity - The site must have sources of water that are seasonally active in more
       than half of the years on a long-term basis.
   .   Size Classification - Non-forested wetlands greater than 0. 5 acres are classified as Type A
       wetlands.
   .   Regulatory Variability - Wetland regulations can differ based on the type of wetland and the
       activities impacting them.
                                                    59
htt s://a   s.ecolo .wa. ov/ ublications/documents/2306009. df

3. 1 When to use the wetland rating system
The rating system is designed as a rapid screening tool to categorize wetlands for use by agencies
and local governments in protecting and managing wetlands. It should be used only on vegetated
wetlands as defined using the delineation procedures in WAC 173-22-035. The rating system does
not try to establish the economic values present in a wetland; it only helps to identify its sensitivity,
significance, rarity, and functions

3. 3 General guidance for using the Wetland Rating Form Land-owner's permission

It is important to obtain permission from the landowner(s)
before going on their property.
Time involved
Over the last decade the scientific community has standardized how we group assessment methods
based on the information collected and the time required (Kentula, 2007). The rating system is
classified as a "rapid method" or "Level 2 Assessment" (see definitions in box on next page). We
define rapid as usually taking no more than two people a half day in the field and requiring no more
than a halfday of office preparation and data analysis to come to an answer (Fennessy et al., 2004).
In some cases, however, it may be necessary to visit the wetland more than once. Some of the
questions cannot be answered if the ground is covered with snow or the surface water is frozen. If
this is the case at the time a wetland is being rated, it may be necessary to revisit the site later
NOTE: We recommend that field work always be done by two people for reasons of safety.

D 1.4 Characteristics of seasonal ponding or inundation:
To answerthis question, you will need to estimate how much of the wetland is seasonally ponded
with water. Areas that are seasonally ponded must be inundated for at least 2 consecutive months,
but then dry out for part of the year. Because the seasonally ponded area will change from year to
year, try to estimate what the average condition might be in 5 out of 10 years.

The sheriff's policy also violates the Constitution. As the U. S. Supreme Court
affirmed in Cedar Point Nurser v. Hassid, your rights to use your own property
and to refuse trespassers access to it cannot be overridden by a third party. If
the government wants to take control of your property and dictate whom you
allow on it and whom you're permitted to exclude from it, then the Constitution
demands it pay you just compensation for that taking.




                                                    60
Cedar Point Nursery v. Hassid




Cedar Point Nursery v. Hassid




Cedar Point Nursery v. Hassid

                                             are
           produce              America...




                                                   61
Debbane v. Cit and Count of San Francisco
Court: California Courts of Appeal
Docket: A172067(FirstAppellate District)
Opinion Date: September 11 , 2026
Judge: Kathleen M. Banke
Areas of Law: Constitutional Law, Government & Administrative Law, Real Estate &
Property Law, Zoning, Planning & Land Use

The case involves a challenge to Proposition M, a San Francisco measure
approved by voters in 2022 that imposed an annual "Empty Homes Tax" on
owners of certain residential units kept vacant for more than 182 days in
buildings with more than two units. The stated aim was to discourage
prolonged vacancies and increase available housing. Plaintiffs included
individuals and associations representing property owners, who argued that
Proposition M violated statutory and constitutional protections, including
property rights and familial relations, and was preempted by the Ellis Act,
which protects property owners' right to withdraw accommodations from the
rental market.

The San Francisco City & County Superior Court reviewed cross-motions
for summary judgment. Plaintiffs submitted declarations detailing how
Proposition M would force them to either rent out units against their wishes
or pay substantial taxes, potentially resulting in financial hardship or
effective eviction. The City argued plaintiffs lacked standing and that their
legal claims failed as a matter of law. After briefing and a hearing, the
Superior Court granted summary judgment for plaintiffs, holding that
Proposition M violated the Takings Clause, was preempted by the Ellis Act,



                                           62
            burdened fundamental liberty interests in familial relations, violated equal
            protection, and infringed upon the constitutional right to privacy. The court
            entered judgment prohibiting the City from administering or enforcing
            Proposition M.

            The Court of Appeal of the State of California, First Appellate District,
            Division One, reviewed the City's appeal. The appellate court analyzed the
            measure's conflict with the Ellis Act and concluded that Proposition M
            imposed a "prohibitive price" on owners' right not to offer property for rent,
            directly contravening the Act's protections. The court found that the Ellis Act
            preempts Proposition M and affirmed the trial court's judgment, without
            reaching additional constitutional claims. The judgment prohibiting
            enforcement of Proposition M was thus upheld.



WAC 173-22-035 Identification of Wetlands and HUD 2026 best practice permitting reform


   .   Identification of Wetlands

       Identification of wetlands and deliniation of their
       boundaries pursuant to this Chapter shall be
       done in accordance with the approved Federal
       wetland deliniation manual...

       The Federal Wetland Delineation Manual
       provides standardized procedures for
       identifying and delineating jurisdictional
       wetlands in the United States, primarily for
       regulatory purposes under the Clean Water Act.
       This manual is essential for federal agencies to
       ensure consistent application of wetland
       regulations across various regions.

                                                  63
     Purpose - The manual outlines procedures for identifying
     jurisdictional wetlands under the Clean Water Act,
     ensuring regulatory compliance.
     Interagency Collaboration - Developed by a federal
     interagency panel, it incorporates input from multiple
     agencies to standardize wetland delineation.
     Indicator Species - It includes a list of plant species with
     assigned indicator statuses to help determine wetland
     presence.
     Regional Supplements - The manual is supplemented by
     regional guidelines that address specific ecological
     conditions across different areas



Federal Manual for Identifying and Delineating Jurisdictional
Wetlands



 " We, the undersigned, hereby adopt this Federal Manual as the
technical basis for identifying and delineating jurisdictional wetlands
in the United States."



htt s://www. fws. ov/sites/default/files/documents/2024-04/1342.    df

Section 404 of the Clean Water Act

1. 8. The following definition of wetland is the
regulatory definition used by the EPAand CE for
administering the Section 404 permit program:
Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater
at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under
                                64
normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation
typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands
generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas. (EPA, 40
CFR 230. 3 and CE, 33 CFR 328. 3)



1. 9. This definition emphasizes hydrology, vegetation, and saturated
soils. The Section 404 regulations also deal with other "waters ofthe
United States" such as open water areas, mud flats, coral reefs, riffle
and pool complexes, vegetated shallows, and other aquatic habitats.
Food Security Act of 1985 1. 10.



The following wetland definition is used by the SCS for identifying
wetlands on agricultural land in assessing farmer eligibility for U. S.
Department ofAgriculture program benefits under the
"Swampbuster" provision of this Act:

Wetlands are defined as areas that have a predominance ofhydric
soils and that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at
a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence ofhydrophytic vegetation
typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions, except lands in
Alaska identified as having a high potential for agricultural
development anda predominance of permafrost soils. * (National
Food Security Act Manual, 1988) ^Special Note: The Emergency
Wetlands Resources Act of 1986 also contains this definition, but
without the exception for Alaska.



1. 11. This definition specifies hydrology, hydrophytic vegetation, and
hydric soils.
                                 65
 Any area that meets the hydric soil criteria (defined by the National
Technical Committee for Hydric Soils) is considered to have a
predominance ofhydric soils. The definition also makes a geographic
exclusion for Alaska, so that wetlands in Alaska with a high potential
for agricultural development and a predominance ofpermafrost soils
are exempt from the requirements of the Act. Fish and Wildlife
Service's Wetland Classification System



1. 12. The FWS in cooperation with other Federal agencies, State
agencies, and private organizations and individuals developed a
wetland definition for conducting an inventory of the Nation's
wetlands.




This definition was published in the FWS's publication
"Classification of Wetlands and Deepwater Habitats of the United
States" (Cowardin, et al. 1979):



Wetlands are lands transitional between terrestrial and aquatic
systems where the water table is usually at or near the surface or the
land is covered by shallow water. For purposes of this classification
wetlands must have one or more of the following three attributes: (1)
at least periodically, the land supports predominantly hydrophytes,
(2) the substrate is predominantly undrained hydric soil, and (3) the
substrate is nonsoil and is saturated with water or covered by shallow
water at some time during the growing season of each year


                                   66
1. 13. This definition includes both vegetated and nonvegetated
wetlands, recognizing that some types of wetlands lack vegetation
(e. g., mud flats, sand flats, rocky shores, gravel beaches, and sand
bars). The classification system also defines "deepwater habitats" as
"permanently flooded lands lying below the deepwater boundary of
wetlands. " Deepwater habitats include estuarine and marine aquatic
beds (similar to "vegetated shallows" of Section 404). Open waters
below extreme low water at spring tides in salt and brackish tidal
areas and usually below 6. 6 feet in inland areas and freshwater tidal
areas are also included in deepwater habitats. Summary of Federal
Definitions




1. 14. The CE, EPA, and SCS wetland definitions include only areas
that are vegetated under normal circumstances, while the FWS
definition encompasses both vegetated and nonvegetated areas.
Except for the FWS inclusion ofnonvegetated areas as wetlands and
the exemption for Alaska in the SCS definition, all four wetland
definitions are conceptually the same; they all include three basic
elements - hydrology, vegetation, and soils - for identifying
wetlands.




HUD 2026 best practice permitting reforms



1. Request fee reductions or expidited review under federal
guiidance

                                67
       2. Use modular - manufactured units

       3. Eliminate arbitrary and unreasonable code standards

       4. Local add-on requirements beyond state codes

       5. ADU used for hardship purposes

       6. Reduce regulatory barriers, shorten timelines, lower costs



       Key Standards



       1. Shorten processing

       2. private 3rd party reviewers to conduct plan reviews and
       inspections to speed approvals.

       This manual serves as a critical resource for wetland
       identification

The Fair Housing Act (FHA) protects individuals with disabilities from discrimination in housing,
which includes the placement of mobile homes. Under this law, local governments may be required to
provide reasonable accommodations for individuals with disabilities, allowing them to place mobile
homes in certain areas despite zoning restrictions.

Legal Protections for Disabled Individuals

Understanding the legal framework is essential for disabled individuals seeking housing.
  . Fair Housing Act - This federal law prohibits discrimination against individuals with
       disabilities in housing-related matters.
   .   Reasonable Accommodations - Local governments may need to grant exceptions for mobile
       home placements for disabled individuals.
   .   Zoning Laws - Some zoning laws may disproportionately affect disabled individuals,
       necessitating accommodations.
   .   Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) - While primarily focused on public accommodations,
       the ADA also supports the rights of disabled individuals in housing contexts.
                                                   68
Reasonable accommodations under the Fair Housing Act (FHA) are modifications or adjustments
made in policies, practices, or services to allow individuals with disabilities equal opportunity to use
and enjoy their housing. These accommodations can vary widely, depending on the specific needs of
the individual and the nature of the housing situation.

Understanding Reasonable Accommodations

These accommodations are essential for ensuring accessibility in housing.
   .   Definition - Reasonable accommodations are necessary adjustments in housing policies to
       assist individuals with disabilities.
   .   Examples - Accommodations can include allowing service animals in no-pet housing or
       providing reserved parking spaces.
   .   Legal Requirement - The FHA mandates that housing providers must make these
       accommodations unless it causes undue hardship.



U. S. DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
OFFICE OF FAIR HOUSING AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
U.S. DEPARTMENTOF JUSTICE CIVILRIGHTS DIVISION
Washington, D.C. November 10, 2016

The regulation of land use and zoning is traditionally reserved to state and local governments, except
to the extent that it conflicts with requirements imposed by the Fair Housing Act or other federal laws.
This Joint Statement provides an overview of the Fair Housing Act's requirements relating to state
and local land use practices and zoning laws, including conduct related to group homes.

This Joint Statement focuses on the Fair Housing Act, not on other federal civil rights laws that
prohibit state and local governments from adopting or implementing land use and zoning practices
that discriminate based on a protected characteristic, such as Title II of the Americans with
Disabilities Act ("ADA"), 3 Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 ("Section 504"), 4 and Title VI
of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. 5 In addition, the Joint Statement does not address a state or local
government's duty to affirmatively further fair housing, even though state and local governments that
receive HUD assistance are subject to this duty. For additional information provided by DOJ and HUD
regarding these issues, see the list of resources provided in the answerto Question 27

This Joint Statement focuses on the Fair Housing Act, not on other federal civil rights laws that
prohibit state and local governments from adopting or implementing land use and zoning practices
that discriminate based on a protected characteristic, such as Title II of the Americans with
Disabilities Act ("ADA"), 3 Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 ("Section 504"), 4 and Title VI
of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. 5 In addition, the Joint Statement does not address a state or local
government's duty to affirmatively further fair housing, even though state and local governments that
receive HUD assistance are subject to this duty. For additional information provided by DOJ and HUD
regarding these issues, see the list of resources provided in the answerto Question 27

As established by the Supremacy Clause of the U. S. Constitution, federal laws such as the Fair
Housing Act take precedence over conflicting state and local laws. The Fair Housing Act thus
                                                    69
prohibits state and local land use and zoning laws, policies, and practices that discriminate based on
a characteristic protected under the Act. Prohibited practices as defined in the Act include making
unavailable or denying housing because of a protected characteristic. Housing includes not only
buildings intended for occupancy as residences, but also vacant land that may be developed into
residences.

2. What types of land use and zoning laws or practices violate the Fair hlousing Act?

Refusing to provide reasonable accommodations to land use or zoning policies when such
accommodations may be necessary to allow persons with disabilities to have an equal opportunity to
use and enjoy the housing, by, for example, denying a request to modify a setback requirement so an
accessible sidewalk or ramp can be provided for one or more persons with mobility disabilities.

4. Can state and local land use and zoning laws or practices violate the Fair Housing Act if the state
or locality did not intend to discriminate against persons on a prohibited basis?

Yes. Even absent a discriminatory intent, state or local governments may be liable under the Act for
any land use or zoning law or practice that has an unjustified discriminatory effect because of a
 protected characteristic. In 2015, the United States Supreme Court affirmed this interpretation of the
Act in Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs v. Inclusive Communities Project, lnc.7
The Court stated that "[t]hese unlawful practices include zoning laws and other housing restrictions
that function unfairly to exclude minorities from certain neighborhoodswithout any sufficient
justification. "8

10. What is a reasonable accommodation under the Fair Ho using Act?

The Fair Housing Act makes it unlawful to refuse to make "reasonable accommodations"to rules,
policies, practices, or services, when such accommodations may be necessary to afford persons with
disabilities an equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling. A "reasonable accommodation" is a
change, exception, or adjustment to a rule, policy, practice, or service that may be necessary for a
person with a disabilityto have an equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling, including public and
common use spaces. Since rules, policies, practices, and services may have a different effect on
persons with disabilities than on other persons, treating persons with disabilities exactly the same as
others may sometimes deny them an equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling.

20. When does a state or local government violate the Fair Housing Act by failing to grant a request
for a reasonable accommodation?

A state or local government violates the Fair Housing Act by failing to grant a reasonable
accommodation request if (1) the persons requesting the accommodation or, in the case of a group
home, persons residing in or expected to reside in the group home are persons with a disability under
the Act; (2) the state or local government knows or should reasonably be expected to know of their
disabilities; (3) an accommodation in the land use or zoning ordinance or other rules, policies,
practices, or services of the state or locality was requested by or on behalf of persons with disabilities;
(4) the requested accommodation may be necessary to afford one or more persons with a disability
an equal opportunity to use and enjoy the dwelling; (5) the state or local government refused to grant,
failed to act on, or unreasonably delayed the accommodation request; and (6) the state or local
government cannot show that granting the accommodation would impose an undue financial and
administrative burden on the local government or that it would fundamentally alter the local
government's zoning scheme. A requested accommodation may be necessary if there is an
identifiable relationship between the requested accommodation and the group home residents'
                                                    70
disability. Further information is provided in Q&A 10 above and the HUD/DOJJoint Statement on
ReasonableAccommodations underthe Fair Housing Act.

24. What if a local government fails to act promptly on a reasonable accommodation request?

A local government has an obligation to provide prompt responses to reasonable accommodation
requests, whetheror not a formal reasonable accommodation procedure exists. A local government's
undue delay in responding to a reasonable accommodation request may be deemed a failure to
provide a reasonable accommodation.
   . Scope - These rights apply to various residential settings. including rental units and
       homeowners associations



Department of Ecology
3. 6. 1 How Wetlands Are Defined

Wetlands are defined using well established language that is generally consistent between federal
and Washington State laws. In some jurisdictions, all lands that meet the definition of wetland are
regulated, hlowever, it is not unusual for a jurisdiction to differentiate within its regulations between
wetlands (i. e., biological wetlands) and regulated wetlands (i. e., wetlands that they intend to regulate).
The definition of what constitutes a regulated wetland may vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.

Delineation of wetland boundaries is conducted according to either the federal or state delineation
manual. These manuals are consistent and, when applied correctly, will result in the same wetland
boundary. In the State of Washington, however, local jurisdictions are required by state law to use the
state manual (RCW 36. 70A. 175, Chapter 173. 22. 080 WAC).

As discussed in Chapter 5 of Volume 1, certain wetland types are sometimes excluded from
regulation. These can include small wetlands, isolated wetlands, and wetlands that are designated as
Prior Converted Croplands. The scientific literature makes clear that small wetlands and isolated
wetlands provide important functions and does not provide any rationale for excluding these wetlands
from regulation. Little scientific information is available on Prior Converted Croplands that are
wetlands, but there is no evidence to suggest that they are unimportant in providing wetland functions


Authors who synthesized the literature on the effectiveness of bufferwidths suggest buffers between
25 and 75 feet for wetlands with minimal wildlife habitat functions and adjacent low-intensity land
uses; 50 to 150 feet for wetlands with moderate habitat functions or adjacent high-intensity land uses;
and 150 to 300 feet for wetlands with high habitat functions. Effective buffer widths for protecting
water quality ranged from 25 to 50 feet for 60% removal of pollutants, to 1 50 to 200 feet for 80%
removal of pollutants.

Enhancement of wetlands is also frequently used, but few studies have examined its effectiveness.
Limited studies from Washington indicated a low level of success among enhanced wetlands,
primarily due to a minimal gain in functions in the timeframe between construction of the mitigation
project and the evaluation of gain in functions. It may simply take longer for a gain in functions to
appear (15 to 20 years rather than 5 to 10 years)

                                                     71
In Washington State, 14 counties have adopted a 100-foot buffer requirement for wetlands. There
are 39 counties in the state. 64% have buffers less than 100 feet.

Pierce County

Moderate level of function - 25 feet - 60 feet - 100 feet........... 20-28 points

Not meeting above criteria - 10 feet -10 feet - 30 feet


Kitsap County

Category of Wetland       Base Buffer Width
Category I                200 feet
Category II               100 feet
Category III              50 feet
Category TV               30 feet

King County

   .   Category I Wetlands - These wetlands are the most sensitive and require a buffer of 150
       feet.
   .   Category II Wetlands - These wetlands typically require a buffer of 100 feet.
   .   Category III Wetlands - Standard buffer width is generally 80 feet.
   .   Category IV Wetlands - Buffers can be as narrow as 25 feet, depending on

dark County

   .   Category I Wetlands - Require a minimum buffer width of 150 feet to protect their
       ecological functions.
   .   Category II Wetlands - Typically need a buffer of at least 100 feet.
   .   Category III Wetlands - Generally require a buffer of 50 feet.
   .   Category IV Wetlands - May have a reduced buffer width, often around 25


Federal ]VIanual for Identifying and Delinieating
Jurisdictional Wetlands

Interagency Publication
US Army Corps of Engineers
US Fish and Wildlife Service
                                                    72
US Environmental Protection Agency
U. S.DA. Soil Conservation Service


htt s://usace. contentdm. oclc. or /di ital/collection/ 1
6021collll/id/2263/rec/13

Page 1 - "Swampbusters" regulations 404 at 1. 5 Prior
Converted Cropland
Page 2 - Definition of a Wetland
Page 3 - Definition of a Wetland
Page 5 - Mandatory Technical Criteria for Wetland
Identification
Page 13 - Use of Soils Manuals - Must use county soils
surveys
Page 16, - Aerial photos must use many consecutive
years in the Springtime
All of the federal and state organizations recognize Prior Cnverted Cropland (PCC) as a
legitimate exemption from wetland regulation if the conversion occurred prior to 1985.

Home / State laws and rules / RCWs/ Title 90 / Cha ter 90.58 / Section 90.58.030



State laws and rules




State laws and rules




                                              73
State laws and rules




90. 58. 020 « 90. 58. 030 » 90. 58. 040




RCW90.58.020:




RCW90.58.020:




RCW 90.58.020:




                                          74
RCW90.58.040:




RCW90.58.040:




RCW 90.58.040:




                 75
Chapter90.58 RCW:




Chapter90.58 RCW:




Chapter 90. 58 RCW:




Title 90 RCW:




                      76
Title 90 RCW:




Title 90 RCW:




RCW 90. 58. 030

Definitions and concepts.
(h) "Wetlands" means areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or
groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated
soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas.
Wetlands do not include those artificial wetlands intentionally created from nonwetland
sites, including, but not limited to, irrigation and drainage ditches, grass-lined swales, canals,
                                                77
detention facilities, wastewater treatment facilities, farm ponds, and landscape amenities,
or those wetlands created after July 1, 1990, that were unintentionally created as a result of
the construction of a road, street, or highway. Wetlands may include those artificial
wetlands intentionally created from nonwetland areas to mitigate the conversion of
wetlands.




Department of Ecology -

htt s:/ ecolo . wa. ov re ulations- ermits laws-rules-rulemakin /rulemakin

Water & Shorelines

    .   Cha ters 173-26 and 173-27 WAC-Shoreline Mana ementAct



-- Forwarded Message --

From: dark County Citizens United, Inc. <cccuinc@yahoo.com>

To: Susan Rasmussen <sprazz@outlook.com>

Sent: Wednesday, May 13, 2026 at 08:21:30PM PDT

Subject: Fw: Washington Dept. of Ecology definition of wetland sent to planners

Wow.....just a little testy here............ he's lying....... he just rubber stamped what the county map said
and charged $6, 000 to do it. In the emails, he was constantly asking the county for that map, for six
months. Too bad he isn't in it for the landower. Even more reason to get the code changed.



-- Forwarded Message --

From: Jim Barnes <jim@cascadia-inc.com>

To: dark County Citizens United, Inc. <cccuinc@yahoo. com>

Sent: Friday, February 6, 2026 at 08:07:55PM PST

Subject: Re: Washington Dept. of Ecology definition of wetland sent to planners




Actually, I do advocate for my client's so don't really appreciate the insinuation from you that I
don't. Best of tuck in your efforts fightingthe county and good evening. I also am not interested in
hearingfrom your clients who have worked with AshEco so you can disregard that
request.
                                                           78
Sent from my T-Mobite 5G Device
Get Outlook for Android




It was nice speakingwith you yesterday. I also wanted to note that the correct spelling of my last name is
Barnes.


I completely understand your frustrations with the County's critical areas determination process. In
many cases, these determinations can significantly affect a landowner's ability to use their property due
to the presence of critical areas and associated buffers. I frequently encounter situations where
landowners have unknowingly removed trees within buffers or impacted wetlands, unaware that these
areas were regulated. Unfortunately, those actions can result in code enforcement cases and the
potential for fines. As a result, Landownersoften proceed with the County's required mitigation, which
can be substantial-sometimes taking up large portions of their property or requiring the purchase of
costly wetland or habitat bank credits.

You mentioned that County biologists may be specifically recommendingAsh Eco as a preferred
consultant for wetland and habitat issues, rather than simply providing a list of qualified consultants.
You also indicated that several landowners you represent reported that critical areas maps were
prepared for County submittal without a site visit beingconducted.

Would you be willing to provide specific examples of this, and/or connect me with those individuals so I
can discuss their experiences directly?




Habitat Conservation Ordinance The goal of the habitat conservation ordinance (HCO; CCC Cha ter 40. 440)
is no net loss of habitat functions and values within designation habitat areas by protecting
environmentally distinct, fragile and vulnerable fish and wildlife habitat areas while allowing
reasonable use of private property. Updates to the HCO were made in 2006 (Ords. 2006-06-09, 2006-
07-09, and 2006-08-03). The most recent update was done in 2014 Ord. 2014-12-05) to include new
wetland buffers required to protect habitat functions and wetlands.

       Wetland Protection Ordinance

       The purpose of the wetlands protection ordinance CCC Cha ter 40. 450 is to further the goal
of no net loss of wetland functions, provide for a high level of protection for higher-quality wetlands,
and encourage restoration and enhancement of degraded and low quality wetlands, while allowing
reasonable use of private property. Updates to the ordinance were made in 2006 (Ord. 2006-05-
27). The most recent update was done in 2014 Ord. 2014-12-05) to include new wetland buffers
required to protect habitat functions and


                                                     79
wetlands.




        Takings Claims in Federal Court



        Key Point

    .   Property owners may now bring a regulatory takings or inverse condemnation claim in
        federal court without first exhausting state court remedies, overruling Williamson County.
        On June 21, 2019, the U. S. Supreme Court ruled that property owners who have had theh-
property taken by state or local governments without compensation may file a Fifth Amendment
takings claim in federal court without first having to exhaust remedies in state court. The decision,
Knick v Townshi o Scott Penns lvania, ^o. 17-647, overruled Williamson County Regional
Planning Commission v Hamilton Bank ofJohnson City, 473 U. S. 172, an oft-criticized precedent
that required takings claims to first be heard in state court.

        Under the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments to the U. S. Constitution, a property owner has
a "takings" claim against the government when government action (such as a regulation) goes too
far in restricting the owner's use. Williamson Coimty created two procedural prerequisites to
bringing a takings claims in federal court: (1) the "fmal decision" requirement, holding that the
government had to have made a final decision on what uses were allowed to the owner under the
government regulation; and (2) the owner must have been denied compensation by the government,
and sued the government in state court first (the "state litigation" requirement).

        The Catch-22 was that, under other Supreme Court precedent, if a landowner lost in state
court, the owner's claim was barred in federal court. It is this Catch-22 that the Supreme Court
addressed, and resolved, in Knick.

        Knick owned 90 acres of rural residential land with a small burial site. She was fined by the
Township of Scott, Pennsylvania, for allegedly violating a township ordinance that all cemeteries
must be kept open to the public during the day. Knick claimed that the regulation deprived her of
the full use of her property without compensation and sued in federal court under the Fifth and
Fourteenth Amendments-without previously obtaining a final determmation on compensation
from a state court. Relying on Williamson County, the Third Circuit Court of Appeals found that
Knick's federal claim was barred because Knick had not been finally denied compensation by a
state court.


        The Supreme Court reversed and overruled Williamson Coimty's state litigation requirement.
The court held that because a takings claim under the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments is a
constitutional claim, 42 U. S. C. § 1983 provides a federal cause of action in federal court, without


                                                    80
the need to exhaust state remedies: "A property owner has an actionable Fifth Amendment takings
claim when the government takes his property without paying for it."

       What this means to you

      Knick significantly changes the landscape for property owners who wish to sue the
government for takings or inverse condemnation claims. Those claims may now be brought in
federal court without the owner having previously litigated the issue in state court. Those property
owners are also entitled to bring a § 1983 claim for the taking in state court if they choose
(although such claims would likely be subject to removal by municipal or state defendants). For
developers and property owners who claim that sta'ict development regulations or zoning rules have
the effect of "taking" their property, those parties now have access to the federal courts.

       From the perspective of a government entity, Knick does not create new causes of action or
additional liability, but it does expose the government to proceedings in federal court rather than
state court. And Williamson Coimty's "final decision" requirement is still good law. Claims brought
before the government entity has made a final determination of what uses will still be permissible
are not ripe.




40.440.020 Standards and Nonregulatory Measures



                   d. Subject to individual circumstances, potential mitigation measures may
            include, but are not limited to, the following:


                          (1) Avoiding the impact all together by not taking a certain action or parts of an
                action;


                          (2) Exploring alternative on-site locations to avoid or reduce impacts of activities;


                          (3)   Preserving important vegetation and natural habitat features by establishing
                buffers or by limiting clearing or alteration;


                          (4)   Replacing invasive exotic plants with native species (refer to the dark County
                Native Plant Communities Guide or other relevant publication for guidance);


                          (5)   Prohibiting introduction of invasive plant species in habitat areas;


                       (6) Enhancing, restoring or replacing vegetation or other habitat features and
                functions. In riparian areas, this may include riparian zone averaging as specified in Section
                40.440.020(C)(3);


                                                        81
       (7) Using native plants where appropriate when planting within habitat areas (refer
to the dark County Native Plant Communities Guide or other relevant publication for
guidance);


       (8)    Managing access to habitat areas, including exclusionary fencing for livestock
if needed;


       (9) Stream crossings:


            (a) Using existing stream crossings whenevera review of suitability,
     capacity, access and location, habitat impacts of alternatives, maintenance, liability
    and economics indicate the existing crossing is feasible;


              (b)   Constructing new stream crossings, when necessary, in conformance to
    the water crossing structure standards in WAC 220-110-070(Hydraulic Code Rules),
    which are incorporated by reference;


       (10)    Seasonally restricting construction activities;


       (11) Implementing best management practices and integrated management
practices;


       (12) Monitoring or review of impacts and assurance of stabilization of the area;


       (13)    Establishing peri'ormance measures or bonding;


       (14) Establishing conservation covenants and other mechanisms to ensure long-
term preservation or                    maintenance of mitigation actions;


       (15) Utilizing low impact development techniques;


        (16) Promoting water quality by limiting the use of lawn and garden chemicals in
habitat areas; and/or


       (17)    Avoiding topsail removal and minimizing topsail compaction;




       The Lewis County court case is very important to the dark County
Comp Plan update.




       "Lewis County is not required to designate all land that is capable of being farmed,
                                      82
                    Lewis County defined the needs of and nature of the industry and we believe the


                     Board should approve that approach. The notion that a County must designate
       all land



                     capable of being farmed is simply wrong."


                  "The GMA is not intended to trap anyone in economic failure."




                  It hasto do with the farmer's and forester's bottom lines. The mandate is to conserve
       only those farmlandswith long-term commercial significance. This is to ensure maintenance
       of the industries.




               "Ifthe state wants to conserve all land that is capable of being farmed without regard
       to its commercial viability, it may buy the land"




. Pacific Legal Foundation
.   Shoreline permit conditions violate the unconstitutional conditions doctrine if they
    automatically and uniformly ddemand the dedication of a conservation easement and
    are imposed without site-specific considerations.
.   The provisions of Washington's Shoreline Management Act represent a compromise
    between the interests of government, environmentalists, industry groups, and property
    owners. Judicial elevation of environmental interests above all others destroys the
    careful balance intended by the legislature.
.   Government agencies cannot demand money in exchange for a permit when that money
    isn't being used to take care of a harm caused by the development of the property.
.   Because the off-site improvement of 50 acres of wetlands on government lands was not
    related in nature or extent to the alleged impact of Mr. Koontz's proposed development
    on little more than three acres of his own property, the permit condition violated the
    unconstitutional conditions doctrine of Nollan and Dolan.




                                              83
Located directly across Puget Sound from Seattle, the City of Bainbridge Island
is a residential suburb. Despite the fact that its shorelines have been fully
developed for decades, in 2014 the city updated its Shoreline Management
Plan (SMP) to require that any "human activity" with the potential of disturbing
vegetation within the shoreline be approved by the government and be subject
to numerous highly contentious conditions, including requirements that the
owner execute a conservation easement of sufficient size to "enhance" and
"restore" the marine shoreline. The city then declared it to be a crime
punishable by jail time and hefty fines for anyone to engage in such "human
activities" on their own property without prior government approval.

Concerned that this new taw would deprive all shoreline residents of their
property and privacy rights, a group of Bainbridge Island residents formed
Preserve Responsible Shoreline Management (PRSM) to fight the bold
incursion into assault on individual rights.

The city claims that it has the right to strip shoreline residents of their rights
under a recent appellate court decision holding that Washington's legislature,
in enacting the Shoreline Management Act (SMA), explicitly rendered property
rights "secondary" to the public's interest in the environment. That decision is
wrong. The Constitution cannot be thrown away, whether by an act of
legislation or a court decision. It is the fundamental law of the land.

PLF represents PRSM in a lawsuit that challenges the constitutionality of
Bainbridge Island's SMP. Specifically, the lawsuit claims that Bainbridge
Island's demand that residents give the public a conservation easement on
their land in order to secure a permit approval is not supported by the scientific
record and takes more than is necessary to mitigate any negative impacts
caused by development.

The appellate court ruled to bar PRSM from putting on critical evidence
showing that the city's demands will cause constitutional injuries. PLF has
sought reconsideration of that decision. But if the appellate court denies their
right to put on evidence, it would limit a property owner's ability to enforce his
or her property rights in the courts. PRSM argues that the Due Process Clause
of the U. S. Constitution requires courts to allow a party to put on its own
                                   84
evidence-an argument that is supported by numerous U. S. Supreme Court
decisions




Represented by PLF,the Nollans filed their lawsuit Nollan v. California Coastal
Commission challenging the California Coastal Commission's property
exactions as unlawful takings of property without just compensation. They won
in trial court but lost in appellate court, and the California Supreme Court
declined to take the case, so in 1987, Nollan v. California Coastal Commission
went before the United States Supreme Court and the Nollans finally were
vindicated. The Court struck down the California Coastal Commission's
demands for land as unconstitutional and an "out-and-out plan of extortion."




Justice Anton Scalia's majority ruling in No//an v. California Coastal Commission
held that compelling a property taking for a public purpose is legal only if it has
a direct connection to some harm caused by the development project, and that
no such connection existed in the Nollans' case.

Nollan v. California Coastal Commission's majority opinion concluded by saying
that if California "wants an easement across the Nollans' property, it must pay
for it."

Nollan v. California Coastal Commission marked PLF's first Supreme Court win
and was a great victory for Patrick and Marilyn and property owners across the
country. It established the "essential nexus test" used in unconstitutional
conditions analyses. That is, from that date forward, all permit conditions
imposed on land development must be related to actual harms caused by the
development.

The impact was swift and lasting. The California Coastal Commission's rule
was struck down in California and new favorable law was created in an
additional 29 states. And between law review articles and court decisions, the
Nollan v. California Coastal Commission victory has been cited over 9, 000 times
and is taught in every law school curriculum on property rights.

                                  85
The Supreme Court's 1987 decision in Nollan v. California Coastal Commission
struck down certain government demands for land in exchange for a permit as
"out-and-out plan of extortion. " The ruling, PLF's first Supreme Court win,
determined that all permit conditions imposed on land development must
relate to actual harm caused by the development. The Court expanded Nollan's
scope in 1994, ruling in Dolan v. Cit of Tj ard that government demands must
be sufficiently proportional to the actual impacts of the proposed use.



Supreme Court precedent recognizes that, while local governments can charge
fees to mitigate for actual public impacts caused by a private project,
demanding property in an amount that goes above and beyond that mitigation
standard is a taking. This is true whether imposed by bureaucrats or
lawmakers, but until George brought his case, the Supreme Court had yet to
say so.

On April 12, 2024, the Supreme Court unanimously ruled in George's favor.
"[T]here is no basis for affording property rights less protection in the hands of
legislators than administrators, " Justice Amy Coney Barrett wrote in the
decision. "The Takings Clause applies equally to both-which means that it
prohibits legislatures and agencies alike from imposing unconstitutional
conditions on land-use permits."

Sheetz v. El Dorado County was originally filed and litigated by former PLF
attorney Paul Beard II, who successfully argued Koontz. Paul is now a partner
at Pierson Ferdinand and argued the case at the Supreme Court, with PLF
attorneys as co-counsel.



Then in 2013, the Court extended the precedents set in both Nollan and Dolan to permit
fees in another PLFcase, Koontz v. St. Johns River Water Mana ement District. That is,
the government cannot weaponize the permitting process to extort more land or money
from property owners than is appropriate. As powerful as the precedent trio has been in
curbing unconstitutional permitting conditions, however, some lower courts found a legal
loophole for state and local governments. Rather than focusing on the legal doctrine
                                     86
             established by Nollan, Dolan, and Koontz, some courts focused on the fact that the permit
             conditions at issue in those cases were ultimately imposed by bureaucrats as part of a
             permit review process.


         .   Those courts, which include the California courts, adopted a rule that limited the nexus
             and proportionality tests to conditions imposed administratively-exempting legislative
             demands from the constitutional doctrine. That loophole is critical because El Dorado
             County imposed its permit fees legislatively, as part of a countywide land use overhaul
             adopted in 2004.


      Beginning of Chapter « 64.40.010 » 64.40.020




Revised Code of Washington (RCW)




Revised Code of Washington (RCW)




Revised Code of Washington (RCW)




                                                  87
RCW 64. 40. 010

Definitions-Defense in action for damages.
      As used in this chapter, the terms in this section shall have the meanings indicated
unless the context clearly requires otherwise.


       (1) "Agency" means the state of Washington, any of its political subdivisions, including
any city, town, or county, and any other public body exercising regulatory authority or
control over the use of real property in the state.


      (2) "Permit" means any governmental approval required by law before an owner of a
property interest may improve, sell, transfer, or otherwise put real property to use.


      (3) "Property interest" means any interest or right in real property in the state.

      (4) "Damages" means reasonable expenses and losses, other than speculative losses or
profits, incurred between the time a cause of action arises and the time a holder of an
interest in real property is granted relief as provided in RCW 64.40.020. Damages must be
caused by an act, necessarily incurred, and actually suffered, realized, or expended, but are
not based upon diminution in value of or damage to real property, or litigation expenses.

      (5) "Regulation" means any ordinance, resolution, or other rule or regulation adopted
pursuant to the authority provided by state law, which imposes or alters restrictions,
limitations, or conditions on the use of real property.

      (6) "Act" means a final decision by an agency which places requirements, limitations,
or conditions upon the use of real property in excess of those allowed by applicable
regulations in effect on the date an application for a permit is filed. "Act" also means the
failure of an agency to act within time limits established by law in response to a property
owner's application for a permit: PROVIDED, That there is no "act" within the meaning of
this section when the owner of a property interest agrees in writing to extensions of time, or
to the conditions or limitations imposed upon an application for a permit "Act" shall not
include lawful decisions of an agency which are designed to prevent a condition which would
constitute a threat to the health, safety, welfare, or morals of residents in the area.



                                                 88
      In any action brought pursuant to this chapter, a defense is available to a political
subdivision of this state that its act was mandated by a change in statute or state rule or
regulation and that such a change became effective subsequent to the filing of an application
for a permit.




      Home / State laws and rules / WACs / Title 197 / Cha ter 197-11 / Section 197-11-
800

      197-11-799 « 197-11-800 » 197-11-810


WAG 197-11-800
Categorical exemptions.
      A enc filin saffectin this section

      The proposed actions contained in Part Nine are categorically exempt from threshold
determination and EIS requirements, subject to the rules and limitations on categorical
exemptions contained in WAC 197-11-305.



      (1) Minor new construction - Flexible thresholds.
      (a) The exemptions in this subsection apply to all licenses required to undertake the
construction in question. To be exempt under this subsection, the project must be equal to
or smaller than the exempt level. For a specific proposal, the exempt level in (b) of this
subsection shall control, unless the citv/countv in which the oroiect is located establishes an
exempt level under (c) of this subsection. If the proposal is located in more than one
city/county, the lower of the agencies' adopted levels shall control, regardless of which
agency is the lead agency. The exemptions in this subsection apply except when the project:
       (i) Is undertaken wholly or partly on lands covered by water;
       (ii) Requires a license governing discharges to water that is not exempt under RCW
43. 21C. 0383;
       (iii) Requires a license governing emissions to air that is not exempt under RCW
43. 21C. 0381 or WAC 197-11-800 (7) or (8); or
       (iv) Requires a land use decision that is not exempt under WAC 197-11-800(6).
       (b) The following types of construction shall be exempt:

                                               89
         (i) The construction or location of four attached or detached single family residential
units.
       (ii) The construction or location of four multifamily residential units.
       (iii) The construction of a barn, loafing shed, farm equipment storage building, produce
storage or packing structure, or similar agricultural structure, covering 10, 000 square feet,
and to be used only by the property owner or his or her agent in the conduct of farming the
property. This exemption shall not apply to feed lots.
       (iv) The construction of an office, school, commercial, recreational, service or storage
building with 4, 000 square feet of gross floor area, and with associated parking facilities
designed for 20 automobiles. This exemption includes parking lots for 20 or fewer
automobiles not associated with a structure.
         (v) Any fill or excavation of 100 cubic yards throughout the total lifetime of the fill or
excavation and any excavation, fill or grading necessary for an exempt project in (i), (ii), (iii),
or (iv) of this subsection shall be exempt.
        (c) Cities, towns or counties may raise the exempt levels up to the maximum specified
in (d) of this subsection by implementing ordinance or resolution. Such levels shall be
specified in the agency's SEPA procedures (WAC 197-11-904). Separate maximum optional
thresholds are established in (d) of this subsection applying to both incorporated areas and
unincorporated urban growth areas in fully planning jurisdictions under RCW 36. 70A. 040;
other unincorporated areas in fully planning counties; and jurisdictions in all other counties.
Agencies may adopt the maximum level or a level between the minimum and maximum level.
An agency may adopt a system of several exempt levels, such as different levels for different
geographic areas, and mixed use projects.
     At a minimum, the following process shall be met in order to raise the exempt levels.
     (i) Documentation that the requirements for environmental analysis, protection and
mitigation for impacts to elements of the environment (listed in WAC 197-11-444) have
been adequately addressed for the development exempted. The requirements may be
addressed in specific adopted development regulations, and applicable state and federal
regulations. The city, town, or county must document the result of its outreach with the
department of transportation on impacts to state-owned transportation facilities, including
consideration of whether mitigation is necessary for impacts to state-owned transportation
facilities.
       (ii) Description in the findings or other appropriate section of the adopting ordinance
or resolution of the locally established notice and comment opportunities for the public,
affected tribes, and agencies regarding permitting of development projects included in these
increased exemption levels.
       (iii) Before adopting the ordinance or resolution containing the proposed new
exemption levels, the agency shall provide a minimum of 60 days notice to affected tribes,
agencies with expertise, affected jurisdictions, the department of ecology, and the public
and provide an opportunity for comment.
      (iv) The city, town, or county must document how specific adopted development
regulations and applicable state and federal laws provide adequate protections for cultural
and historic resources when exemption levels are raised. The requirements for notice and
                                                  90
opportunity to comment for the public, affected tribes, and agencies in (c)(i) and (ii) of this
subsection and the requirements for protection and mitigation in (c)(i) of this subsection
must be specifically documented. The local ordinance or resolution shall include, but not be
limited to, the following:
      . Use of available data and other project review tools regarding known and likely
cultural and historic resources, such as inventories and predictive models provided by the
Washington department of archaeology and historic preservation, other agencies, and tribal
governments.
         . Planning and permitting processes that ensure compliance with applicable laws
including chapters 27. 44. 27. 53, 68. 50, and 68. 60 RCW.
      . Local development regulations that include at minimum preproject cultural resource
review where warranted, and standard inadvertent discovery language (Sl DL) for all
projects.
        (d) The maximum exemption levels applicable to (c) of this subsection are:
                                                   Fully planning GMA counties                       All other counties
                                                                             Other unincorporated     Incorporated and
         Project types           Incorporated UGA Unincorporated UGA                 areas          unincorporated areas
Single family residential             30 units              30 units               20 units               20 units
Single family residential with        100 units             30 units               20 units               20 units
the total square footage less
than 1, 500 square feet
Multifamily residential               200 units             60 units               25 units               25 units
Barn, loafing shed, farm         40, 000 square feet   40, 000 square feet    40, 000 square feet    40, 000 square feet
equipment storage, produce
storage or packing structure
Office, school, commercial,      30, 000 square feet   30, 000 square feet    12, 000 square feet    12, 000 square feet
recreational, service, storage     and 90 parking        and 90 parking         and 40 parking         and 40 parking
building, parkingfacitities           spaces                spaces                  spaces                spaces
Fill or excavation               1, 000 cubic yards    1, 000 cubic yards      1, 000 cubic yards    1, 000 cubic yards
        (2) Other minor new construction.
      (a) The exemptions in this subsection apply to all licenses required to undertake the
following types of proposals except when the project:
      (i) Is undertaken wholly or partly on lands covered by water;
      (ii) Requires a license governing discharges to water that is not exempt under RCW
43. 21C. 0383;
        (iii) Requires a license governing emissions to air that is not exempt under RCW
43. 21C. 0381 or WAC 197-11-800 (7) or (8); or
        (iv) Requires a land use decision that is not exempt under WAC 197-11-800(6).
        (b) The construction or designation of bus stops, loading zones, shelters, access
facilities, pull-out lanes for taxicabs, transit and school vehicles, and designation of transit
only lanes.
      (c) The construction or installation of commercial on-premise signs, and public signs
and signals, including those for traffic control and wayfinding.
        (d) The construction or installation of minor road and street improvements by any
agency or private party that include the following:

                                                               91
      (i) Safety structures and equipment: Such as pavement marking, adding or removing
turn restrictions, speed limit designation, physical measures to reduce motor vehicle traffic
speed or volume, freeway surveillance and control systems, railroad protective devices (not
including grade-separated crossings), grooving, glare screen, safety barriers, energy
attenuators;
      (ii) Transportation corridor landscaping (including the application of state of
Washington approved herbicides by licensed personnel for right of wayweed control as long
as this is not within watersheds controlled for the purpose of drinking water quality;
      (iii) Temporary traffic controls and detours;
      (iv) Correction of substandard curves and intersections within existing rights of way,
widening of a highway by less than a single lane width where capacity is not significantly
increased and no new right of way is required;
      (v) Adding auxiliary lanes for localized purposes, (weaving, climbing, speed change,
etc), where capacity is not significantly increased and no new right of way is required;
      (vi) Channelization, rechannelization, elimination of sight restrictions at intersections,
street lighting, guard rails and barricade installation;
      (vii) Installation of catch basins and culverts for the Durooses of road and street
improvements;
      (viii) Reconstruction of existing roadbed (existing curb-to-curb in urban locations),
including adding or widening of shoulders where capacity is not increased and no new right
of way is required;
      (ix) Addition of bicycle lanes, paths and facilities, and pedestrian walks and paths
including sidewalk extensions, but not including additional automobile lanes.
      (e) Grading, excavating, filling, septic tank installations, and landscaping necessary for
any building or facility exempted by subsections (1) and (2) of this section, as well as fencing
and the construction of small structures and minor facilities accessory thereto.
      (f) Additions or modifications to or replacement of any building or facility exempted by
subsections (1) and (2) of this section when such addition, modification or replacement will
not change the character of the building or facility in a way that would remove it from an
exempt class.
      (g) The demolition of any structure or facility, the construction of whichwould be
exempted by subsections (1) and (2) of this section, except for structures or facilities with
recognized historical significance such as listing in a historic register.
      (h) The installation or removal of impervious underground or above-ground tanks,
having a total capacity of 10, 000 gallons or less except on agricultural and industrial lands.
On agricultural and industrial lands, the installation or removal of impervious underground
or above-ground tanks, having a total capacity of 60, 000 gallons or less.
      (i) The vacation of streets or roads, converting public right of way, and other changes
in motor vehicle access.
      (j) The installation of hydrological measuring devices, regardless of whether or not on
lands covered by water.
      (k) The installation of any property, boundary or survey marker, other than fences,
regardless of whether or not on lands covered by water.
                                                 92
       (I) The installation of accessory solar energy generation equipment on or attached to
existing structures and facilities whereby the existing footprint and size of the building is not
increased.
       (3) Repair, remodeling and maintenance activities. The following activities shall be
categorically exempt: The repair, remodeling, maintenance, or minor alteration of existing
private or public structures, facilities or equipment, including utilities, recreation, and
transportation facilities involving no material expansions or changes in use beyond that
previously existing; except that, where undertaken wholly or in part on lands covered by
water, only minor repair or replacement of structures may be exempt (examples include
repair or replacement of piling, ramps, floats, or mooring buoys, or minor repair, alteration,
or maintenance of docks). The following maintenance activities shall not be considered
exempt under this subsection:
       (a) Dredging of over 50 cubic yards of material;
       (b) Reconstruction or maintenance of groins and similar shoreline protection
structures;
       (c) Replacement of utility cables that must be buried under the surface of the
bedlands;or
       (d) Repair/rebuilding of major dams, dikes, and reservoirs shall also not be considered
exempt under this subsection.
       (4) Water rights. Appropriations of one cubic foot per second or less of surface water,
or of 2, 250 gallons per minute or less of groundwater, for any purpose. The exemption
covering not only the permit to appropriate water, but also any hydraulics permit, shoreline
permit or building permit required for a normal diversion or intake structure, well and
pumphouse reasonably necessary to accomplish the exempted appropriation, and including
any activities relating to construction of a distribution system solely for any exempted
appropriation.
      (5) Purchase or sale of real property. The following real property transactions by an
agency shall be exempt:
     (a) The purchase or acquisition of any right to real property.
     (b) The sale, transfer or exchange of any publicly owned real property, but only if the
property is not subject to a specifically designated and authorized public use established by
the public landowner and used by the public for that purpose.
      (c) Leasing, granting an easement for, or otherwise authorizing the use of real
property when the property use will remain essentially the same as the existing use for the
term of the agreement, or when the use under the lease, easement or other authorization is
otherwise exempted by this chapter.
      (6) Land use decisions. The following land use decisions shall be exempt:
      (a) Land use decisions for exempt projects, except that rezones must comply with (c)
of this subsection.
       (b) Other land use decisions not qualified for exemption under subsection (a) (such as
a home occupation or change of use) are exempt provided:
       (i) The authorized activities will be conducted within an existing building or facility
qualifying for exemption under WAC 197-11-800 (1) and (2); and
                                               93
       (ii) The activities will not change the character of the building or facility in a way that
would remove it from an exempt class.
       (c) Where an exempt project requires a rezone, the rezone is exempt only if:
       (i) The project is in an urban growth area in a city or county planning under RCW
36. 70A.040;
       (ii) The proposed rezone is consistent with and does not require an amendment to the
comprehensive plan; and
      (iii) The applicable comprehensive plan was previously subjected to environmental
review and analysis through an EIS under the requirements of this chapter prior to adoption;
and the EISadequately addressed the environmental impacts of the rezone.
      (d) Except upon lands covered by water, the approval of short plats or short
subdivisions pursuant to the procedures required by RCW 58. 17. 060, and short plats or
short subdivisions within the original short subdivision boundaries provided the cumulative
divisions do not exceed the total lots allowed to be created under RCW 58. 17. 020. This
exemption includes binding site plans authorized by RCW 58. 17. 035 up to the same number
of lots allowed by the jurisdiction as a short subdivision.
       (e) Granting of variance based on special circumstances, not including economic
hardship, applicable to the subject property, such as size, shape, topography, location or
surroundings and not resulting in any change in land use or density.
       (f) Alteration of property lines as authorized by RCW 58. 17. 040(6).

       (7) Open burning. Opening burning and the issuance of any license for open burning
shall be exempt. The adoption of plans, programs, objectives or regulations by any agency
incorporating general standards respecting open burning shall not be exempt.
       (8) Clean Air Act. The granting of variances under RCW 70. 94. 181 extending
applicable air pollution control requirements for one year or less shall be exempt.
       (9) Water quality certifications. The granting or denial of water quality certifications
under the Federal Clean Water Act (Federal Water Pollution Control Act amendments of
1972, 33 U.S.C. 1341) shall be exempt.
       (10) Activities of the state legislature. All actions of the state legislature are exempted.
       (11) Judicial activity. The following shall be exempt:
       (a) All adjudicatory actions of the judicial branch.
       (b) Any quasi-judicial action of any agency if such action consists of the review of a
prior administrative or legislative decision. Decisions resulting from contested cases or
other hearing processes conducted prior to the first decision on a proposal or upon any
application for a rezone, conditional use permit or other similar permit not otherwise
exempted by this chapter, are not exempted by this subsection.
    (12) Enforcement and inspections. The following enforcement and inspection
activities shall be exempt:
       (a) All actions, including administrative orders and penalties, undertaken to enforce a
statute, regulation, ordinance, resolution or prior decision. No license shall be considered
exempt by virtue of this subsection; nor shall the adoption of any ordinance, regulation or
resolution be considered exempt by virtue of this subsection.
                                                 94
       (b) All inspections conducted by an agency of either private or public property for any
purpose.
       (c) All activities of fire departments and law enforcement agencies except physical
construction activity.
      (d) Any action undertaken by an agency to abate a nuisance or to abate, remove or
otherwise cure any hazard to public health or safety. The application of pesticides and
chemicals is not exempted by this subsection but may be exempted elsewhere in these
guidelines. No license or adoption of any ordinance, regulation or resolution shall be
considered exempt by virtue of this subsection.
       (e) Any suspension or revocation of a license for any purpose.
       (13) Business and other regulatory licenses. The following business and other
regulatory licenses are exempt:
       (a) All licenses to undertake an occupation, trade or profession.
       (b) All licenses required under electrical, fire, plumbing, heating, mechanical, and
safety codes and regulations, but not including building permits.
       (c) All licenses to operate or engage in amusement devices and rides and
entertainment activities including, but not limited to, cabarets, carnivals, circuses and other
traveling shows, dances, music machines, golf courses, and theaters, including approval of
the use of public facilities for temporary civic celebrations, but not including licenses or
permits required for permanent construction of any of the above.
       (d) All licenses to operate or engage in charitable or retail sales and service activities
including, but not limited to, peddlers, solicitors, second hand shops, pawnbrokers, vehicle
and housing rental agencies, tobacco sellers, close out and special sales, fireworks, massage
parlors, public garages and parking lots, and used automobile dealers.
       (e) All licenses for private security services including, but not limited to, detective
agencies, merchant and/or residential patrol agencies, burglar and/or fire alarm dealers,
guard dogs, locksmiths, and bail bond services.
       (f) All licenses for vehicles for-hire and other vehicle related activities including, but
not limited to, taxicabs, ambulances, and tow trucks: Provided, That regulation of common
carriers by the utilities and transportation commission shall not be considered exempt
under this subsection.
      (g) All licenses for food or drink services, sales, and distribution including, but not
limited to, restaurants, liquor, and meat.
      (h) All animal control licenses including, but not limited to, pets, kennels, and pet
shops. Establishment or construction of such a facility shall not be considered exempt by this
subsection.
      (i) The renewal or reissuance of a license regulating any present activity or structure
so long as no material changes are involved.
      (14) Activities of agencies. The following administrative, fiscal and personnel activities
of agencies shall be exempt:
      (a) The procurement and distribution of general supplies, equipment and services
authorized or necessitated by previously approved functions or programs.
      (b) The assessment and collection of taxes.

                                                95
       (c) The adoption of all budgets and agency requests for appropriation: Provided, That
if such adoption includes a final agency decision to undertake a major action, that portion of
the budget is not exempted by this subsection.
       (d) The borrowing of funds, issuance of bonds, or applying for a grant and related
financing agreements and approvals.
      (e) The review and payment of vouchers and claims.
      (f) The establishment and collection of liens and service billings.
      (g) All personnel actions, including hiring, terminations, appointments, promotions,
allocations of positions, and expansions or reductions in force.
      (h) All agency organization, reorganization, internal operational planning or
coordination of plans or functions.
      (i) Adoptions or approvals of utility, transportation and solid waste disposal rates.
      (j) The activities of school districts pursuant to desegregation plans or programs;
however, construction of real property transactions or the adoption of any policy, plan or
program for such construction of real property transaction shall not be considered exempt
under this subsection.
       (k) Classification of land for current use taxation under chapter 84. 34 RCW. and
classification and grading of forest land under chapter 84. 33 RCW.
       (15) Financial assistance grants. The approval of grants or loans by one agency to
another shall be exempt, although an agency may at its option require compliance with SEPA
prior to making a grant or loan for design or construction of a project. This exemption
includes agencies taking nonproject actions that are necessary to apply for federal or other
financial assistance.
      (16) Local improvement districts and special purpose districts. The formation of local
improvement districts and special purpose districts, unless such formation constitutes a final
agency decision to undertake construction of a structure or facility not exempted under
WAC 197-11-800 and 197-11-880. A special district or special purpose district is a local
government entity designated by the Revised Code of Washington (RCW) and is not a city,
town, township, or county.
      (17) Information collection and research. Basic data collection, research, resource
evaluation, requests for proposals (RFPs), and the conceptual planning of proposals shall be
exempt. These may be strictly for information-gathering, or as part of a study leading to a
proposal that has not yet been approved, adopted or funded; this exemption does not
include any agency action that commits the agency to proceed with such a proposal. (Also
see WAC 197-11-070.)
      (18) Acceptance of filings. The acceptance by an agency of any document or thing
required or authorized by law to be filed with the agency and for which the agency has no
discretionary power to refuse acceptance shall be exempt. No license shall be considered
exempt by virtue of this subsection.
      (19) Procedural actions. The proposal, amendment or adoption of legislation, rules,
regulations, resolutions or ordinances, or of any plan or program shall be exempt if they are:
      (a) Relating solely to governmental procedures, and containing no substantive
standards respecting use or modification of the environment.

                                              96
       (b) Text amendments resulting in no substantive changes respecting use or
modification of the environment.
       (c) Agency SEPA procedures.
       (20) Reserved.
       (21) Adoption of noise ordinances. The adoption by counties/cities of resolutions,
ordinances, rules or regulations concerned with the control of noise which do not differ from
regulations adopted by the department of ecology under chapter 70. 107 RCW. When a
county/city proposes a noise resolution, ordinance, rule or regulation, a portion of which
differs from the applicable state regulations, SEPAcompliance may be limited to those items
which differ from state regulations.
       (22) Review and comment actions. Any activity where one agency reviews or
comments upon the actions of another agency or another department within an agency shall
be exempt.
       (23) Utilities. The utility-related actions listed below shall be exempt, except for
installation, construction, or alteration on lands covered by water. The exemption includes
installation and construction, relocation when required by other governmental bodies,
repair, replacement, maintenance, operation or alteration that does not change the action
from an exempt class.
      (a) All communications lines, including cable W, but not including communication
towers or relay stations.
      (b) All stormwater, water and sewer facilities, lines, equipment, hookups or
appurtenances including, utilizing or related to lines 12 inches or less in diameter.
       (c) All electric facilities, lines, equipment or appurtenances, not including substations,
with an associated voltage of 55, 000 volts or less; the overbuilding of existing distribution
lines (55, 000 volts or less) with transmission lines (up to and including 115, 000 volts); within
existing rights of way or developed utility corridors, all electric facilities, lines, equipment or
appurtenances, not including substations, with an associated voltage of 115, 000 volts or
less; and the undergrounding of all electric facilities, lines, equipment or appurtenances.
       (d) All natural gas distribution (as opposed to transmission) lines and necessary
appurtenant facilities and hookups.
      (e) All developments within the confines of any existing electric substation, reservoir,
Duma station vault, oioe. or well: Additional aDDrooriationsof water are not exemoted bv
this subsection.
       (f) Periodic use of chemical or mechanical means to maintain a utility or transportation
right of way in its design condition: Provided, the chemicals used are approved by
Washington state and applied by licensed personnel. This exemption shall not apply to the
use of chemicals within watersheds that are controlled for the purpose of drinking water
quality.
       (g) All grants of rights of way by agencies to utilities for use for distribution (as
opposed to transmission) purposes.
       (h) All grants of franchises by agencies to utilities.
       (i) All disposals of rights of way by utilities.


                                                97
       (24) Natural resources management In addition to the other exemptions contained in
this section, the following natural resources management activities shall be exempt:
       (a) Issuance of new grazing leases covering a section of land or less; and issuance of all
grazing leases for land that has been subject to a grazing lease within the previous 10 years.
       (b) Licenses or approvals to remove firewood.
       (c) Issuance of agricultural leases covering 160 contiguous acres or less.
       (d) Issuance of leases for Christmas tree harvesting or brush picking.
         (e) Issuance of leases for school sites.
         (f) Issuance of leases for, and placement of, mooring buoys designed to serve pleasure
craft.
         (g) Development of recreational sites not specifically designed for all-terrain vehicles
and not including more than 12 campsites.
      (h) Periodic use of chemical or mechanical means to maintain public park and
recreational land: Provided, That chemicals used are approved by the Washington state
department of agriculture and applied by licensed personnel. This exemption shall not apply
to the use of chemicals within watersheds that are controlled for the purpose of drinking
water quality.
         (i) Issuance of rights of way, easements and use permits to use existing roads in
nonresidential areas.
         (j) Establishment of natural area preserves to be used for scientific research and
education and for the protection of rare flora and fauna, under the procedures of chapter
79. 70 RCW.

         (25) Wireless service facilities.
         (a) The siting of wireless service facilities are exempt if:
         (i) The collocation of new equipment, removal of equipment, or replacement of
existing equipment on existing or replacement structures that does not substantially change
the physical dimensions of such structures; or
      (ii) The siting project involves constructing a wireless service tower less than 60 feet in
height that is located in a commercial, industrial, manufacturing, forest, or agricultural zone.
      (b) For the purposes of this subsection:
         (i) "Wireless services" means wireless data and telecommunications services.
including commercial mobile services, commercial mobile data services, unlicensed wireless
services, and common carrier wireless exchange access services, as defined by federal laws
and regulations.
      (ii) "Wireless service facilities" means facilities for the provision of wireless services.
      (iii) "Collocation" means the mounting or installation of equipment on an existing
tower, building, structure for the purposes of either transmitting or receiving, or both, radio
frequency signals for communication purposes.
      (iv) "Existing structure" means any existing tower, pole, building, or other structure
capable of supporting wireless service facilities.
      (v) "Substantially change the physical dimensions" means:


                                                    98
      (A) The mounting of equipment on a structure that would increase the height of the
structure by more than 10 percent, or 20 feet, whichever is greater; or
      (B) The mounting of equipment that would involve adding an appurtenance to the
body of the structure that would protrude from the edge of the structure more than 20 feet,
or more than the width of the structure at the level of the appurtenance, whichever is
greater.
       (c) This exemption does not apply to projects within a critical area designated under
GMA(RCW36. 70A. 060).
        (26) State transportation projects. The following Washington department of
transportation projects and activities shall be exempt: The repair, reconstruction,
restoration, retrofitting, or replacement of any road, highway, bridge, tunnel, or transit
facility (such as a ferry dock or bus transfer station), including ancillary transportation
facilities (such as pedestrian/bicycle paths and bike lanes), that is in operation, as long as the
action:
       (a) Occurs within the existing right of way and in a manner that substantially conforms
to the preexisting design, function, and location as the original except to meet current
engineering standards or environmental permit requirements; and
       (b) The action does not result in addition of automobile lanes, a change in capacity, or a
change in functional use of the facility.
      (27) Structurally deficient city, town and county bridges. The repair, reconstruction,
restoration, retrofitting, or replacement of a structurally deficient city, town or county
bridge shall be exempt as long as the action:
      (a) Occurs within the existing right of way and in a manner that substantially conforms
to the preexisting design, function, and location as the original except to meet current
engineering standards or environmental permit requirements; and
       (b) The action does not result in addition of automobile lanes, a change in capacity, or a
change in functional use of the facility.
      "Structurally deficient" means a bridge that is classified as in poor condition under the
state bridge condition rating system and is reported by the state to the national bridge
inventory as having a deck, superstructure, or substructure rating of four or below.
Structurally deficient bridges are characterized by deteriorated conditions of significant
bridge elements and potentially reduced load-carrying capacity. Bridges deemed
structurally deficient typically require significant maintenance and repair to remain in
service, and require major rehabilitation or replacement to address the underlying
deficiency.

       [Statutory Authority: RCW43. 21C. 110 and 2022 c 246. WSR 23-01-119 (Order 22-
08), § 197-11-800, filed 12/20/22, effective 1/20/23. Statutory Authority: RCW
43. 21C. 110. WSR 16-13-012 (Order 15-09), § 197-11-800, filed 6/2/16, effective 7/3/16.
Statutory Authority: RCW43. 21C. 110 and 43. 21C. 100 [43. 21C. 170]. WSR14-09-026
(Order 13-01), § 197-11-800, filed 4/9/14, effective 5/10/14. Statutory Authority: RCW
43.210. 110. WSR 13-02-065 (Order 12-01), § 197-11-800, filed 12/28/12, effective
1/28/13. Statutory Authority: RCW43. 21A. 090, chapter 43. 21C RCW, RCW43. 21C. 035,
                                                99
43. 21C. 037, 43. 21C. 038, 43. 21C. 0381, 43. 21C. 0382, 43. 21C. 0383, 43. 21C. 110,
43. 21C. 222. WSR03-16-067 (Order 02-12), § 197-11-800, filed 8/1/03, effective 9/1/03.
Statutory Authority: 1995 c 347 (ESHB 1724) and RCW 43. 21C. 110. WSR 97-21-030
(Order 95-16), § 197-11-800, filed 10/10/97, effective 11/10/97. Statutory Authority: RCW
43. 21C. 110. WSR84-05-020 (Order DE83-39), § 197-11-800, filed 2/10/84, effective
4/4/84.]


   RCW 43.21C. 110:




                                           100
Rebecca Mlessin er

From:                            Kathleen Otto
Sent:                           Monday, October 5, 2026 11:14 AM
To:                             Rebecca Messinger
Cc:                             April Furth
Subject:                        FW: Demand for New SEPA Checklist - PSR-2026-00021
Attachments:                    Oct 2nd Letter as noted as Exhibit 127 in public comments. pdf




   C»vhT>.
/^'7\
        t- i

Kathleen Otto
County Manager

564.397.2458




From: Terri Burnett <terrilburnett@gmail.com>
Sent: Monday, October 5, 2026 10:32 AM
To: David Kuhnhausen <David.Kuhnhausen@clark.wa.gov>
Cc: Kathleen Otto <Kathleen. Otto@clark. wa. gov>; county. council@clark. wa. gov; CommDev OA Land Use
<CommDevOALandUse@clark.wa.gov>; Cnty CommDev Land Use <landuse@clark.wa.gov>; Bryan Mattson
<Bryan. Mattson(5)clark. wa.gov>; Brent Davis <Brent. Davis@clark. wa. gov>; Naomi Patibandla
<Naomi. Patibandla@clark. wa. gov>; Allister Dawson <Allister. Dawson@clark. wa. gov>; Dan Kaler
<Dan.Kaler@clark.wa.gov>; Craig Kathol <Craig.Kathol@clark.wa.gov>,· Jason Knoble <Jason.Knoble@clark.wa.gov>
Subject: Demand for New SEPAChecklist - PSR-2026-00021



EXTERNAL:This email originatedfrom outside of Clark County Do not click links or open attachments unless
vou recognize the sender and know the content is safe.




Dear Chair Marshall, Members of the County Council, County Manager Otto, and Director
Kuhnhausen,

I am writing to submit a formal public comment regarding the proposed development at 3511 NW
119th St Vancouver, WA 98685

The dramatic shift from single-family homes to high-density, multi-family housing completely changes
the scope of this project. Therefore, I request that dark County strictly enforce the State
Environmental Policy Act (SEPA) by requiring a completely new, independent SEPA Checklist and
comprehensive impact mitigation before this case moves forward. See attached letter Oct 2nd as
noted in Exhibit 127 of public record ahead of the October 8, 2026 deadline.
I strongly object to any attempt by the applicant or the county to adopt, utilize, or rely upon the legacy
environmental review SEP2009-00094for the current proposal. The 2010 determination is obsolete
and fundamentally inadequate to address the scope of work currently under review. If this project was
previously bypassed for SEPA review under a categorical exemption due to its smaller original scope,
or if it is attempting to rely on outdated reviews, that approach is no longer valid. Because the
applicant is now pushing for a high-densitydevelopment, the threshold has clearly been crossed, and
a brand-new review is legally required.

This raises a critical question for the record: Why didn't dark County Community Development
require a fresh SEPA checklist from the applicant in the first place?

As a voting constituent and a member of this community, I expect our county leadership to ensure
strict regulatory compliance and protect our neighborhood from unmitigated impacts. I request that
this comment be formally entered into the official project record and that a detailed, written response
to this inquiry be provided.

Thank you for your time, leadership, and attention to this matter.

Sincerely,

Terri Burnett

11706 NW 35th Ave - abutting property owner

terrilburnett   mail. com
Date: October 2, 2026
To: dark County Community Development - Land Use Planning Division
Attn: dark County Hearings Examiner& dark County Planning Commission
Delivered Via: Electronic Mail to Bryan. Mattson@clark. wa. gov and
CommDevOALandUse@clark. wa. gov
Regarding Case Number: PSR-2026-00021 (Felida Terrace and Zone Change)
Subject Property: 3511 NW 119th Street, Vancouver, WA 98685

To Daniel Kearns, Hearing Examiner and Community Development - Land Use
Planners,

Please accept this formal open record letter regarding the active Felida Terrace
application (PSR-2026-00021). I am writing to submit a formal objection to Item #15:
SEPAas "N/A" in the developer's application submittal packet.


                 TABLE OF CONTENTS

          1. Cover Sheet
          2. Table of Contents
          3. Application Fonn
          4. Pre-Application Conference Report
          5. Developer's CIS Packet
          6. Project Narrative
          7. Current Deed
          8. Approved Preliminaiy Plats Abutting the Site
          9. Proposed Development Plan
          10. Soil Analysis Report
          11. Preliininaty StonnwaterDesignReport
          12. Proposed Storrowater Plan
          13. PhasmgPlan-N/A
          14. TrafficProfile, Circulation Plan& Sight Distance
      ***t5. SEPAN'A***
          16. SewerUtility ReviewLetter
          17. WaterUtility ReviewLetter
          18. Public Health Review Letter
          19. Preliminary BoundarySurvey Ni'A
          20. School Bus Transportation Letter
          21. DAIIPConfinnation
          22. PlannedUnit Development, Muced Use, Master Plan &
                Type II-A NeigttarhoodMeeting-N/A
          23. Covenants & Restrictions - N/A




For this Type III site-specific rezone from R-12 to R-22 is a significant nonproject action
that nearly doubles allowable density limits, heavily impacting localized infrastructure,
ecological systems, and public safety. By passing a standalone State Environmental
Policy Act (SEPA) environmental checklist is legally premature, factually incorrect, and
explicitly strips the public of due process for the following critical reasons:

1. Deferral to an Unapproved Comprehensive Plan Update is Premature and
Unlawful The applicant is attempting to bypass a localized SEPA review by relying on
the overarching Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) tied to the county's 2025-2045
Comprehensive Growth Management Plan Update. However, the Clark County
Council has not yet approved, finalized, or legally enacted this Comprehensive
Plan Update.
Until the new plan is fully adopted by the County Council and clears the statutory
Growth Management Act (GMA) appeal windows, it does not govern this parcel. The
active, legally binding law of the land requires a site-specific SEPAchecklist for a
density increase of this magnitude. Relying on a pending legislative framework to
grant a SEPAexemption today is a direct violation of Washington State land use laws.

2. The Inclusion of Soil and Stormwater Reports Proves Localized Environmental
Risks The developer's own submittal packet includes Item #10 (Soil Analysis Report)
and Item #11 (Preliminary Stormwater Design Report) The presence of these reports is
clear evidence that localized geologic and hydrologic impacts exist on this 0. 88-acre
site. Standing alone, engineering reports cannot substitute for a formal SEPA review
framework. Because this high-density project sits directly adjacent to established single-
family housing and sits within close proximity to the sensitive Salmon Creek Greenway
watershed, a formal SEPA checklist must be processed to evaluate how high-density
impervious surfaces will affect the localized water table and surrounding urban runoff.

3. County Engineering Records (Exhibit 111) Document Serious, Unresolved
Traffic Deficiencies
In the newly issued Technical Road Modification Report Addendum dated September
24, 2026 dark County Development Engineering staff explicitly noted that "stopping
sight distance was not evaluated" by the applicant. The county documents that the
site sits on a high-speed 40 MPH Minor Arterial and directly violates standard driveway
safety spacing rules under CCC 40. 350. 030, noting a sub-standard gap to the adjacent
driveway to the south. The county's subsequent requirement for a localized "crash
history" analysis under Condition #3 proves that severe, active traffic hazards exist at
this 4-way intersection.

4. Unlawful Deferral of Safety Analyses to "Final Engineering" Strips the Public of
Due Process Most egregiously, Exhibit 111 states that the applicant may submit their
sight distance certification and updated Technical Road Modification details during
"Final Engineering" to address deficiencies.

"Final Engineering" is an administrative process that occurs entirely behind closed
doors after land-use approvals are granted. A site's crash history, sub-standard
driveway spacing on a 40 MPH arterial, and blind spot sight-distances are fundamental
public safety hazards, not minor structural design details. Deferring these analyses to a
non-public phase prevents the community from reviewing the data, denies neighbors
the right to present conflicting expert testimony, and forces the Hearings Examiner to
sign a blank check without vital safety facts. The public has a legal right to review these
safety reports before the application goes to a public hearing.
Conclusion and Demand for Action

The developer cannot use future, unapproved legislation to duck their current legal
obligations. Because the Comprehensive Plan remains unapproved and the county's
own engineering department has formally flagged unresolved traffic safety deficiencies,
the applicant must be compelled to file a complete SEPA checklist, pay the requisite
environmental review fees, and undergo a transparent threshold determination.

The Hearing Examiner should deny the current application on the grounds of
insufficiency, dark County Community Development is urged to issue a determination
of incompleteness and immediately suspend all Type III administrative processing. No
formal public hearing should be scheduled or convened until the developer submits a
comprehensive SEPA report, alongside a complete Sight Distance Certification and
Crash History analysis, for public inspection and review.

Thank you for your time, review, and enforcement of Washington State's environmental
and public safety protections.

Sincerely,


^w^ ^w^e^-.
Terri Burnett
11706 NW 35th Ave
Vancouver, WA 98685
terrilburnett@gmail. com
360-921-1438
Date: October 2, 2026
To: dark County Community Development - Land Use Planning Division
Attn: dark County Hearings Examiner & dark County Planning Commission
Delivered Via: Electronic Mail to Bryan. Mattson@clark.wa.gov and
CommDevOALandUse@clark. wa. gov
Regarding Case Number: PSR-2026-00021 (Felida Terrace and Zone Change)
Subject Property: 3511 NW 119th Street, Vancouver, WA 98685

To Daniel Kearns, Hearing Examiner and Community Development - Land Use
Planners,

Please accept this formal open record letter regarding the active Felida Terrace
application (PSR-2026-00021). I am writing to submit a formal objection to Item #15.
SEPA as "N/A" in the developer's application submittal packet.


                  TABLE OF CONTENTS

           1. Cover Sheet
           2. Table of Contents
           3. Application Form
           4. Pre-ApplicationConferenceReport
           5. Developer's CIS Packet
           6. Project Narrative
           7. Current Deed
          S. Approved Preliminary FlatsAbuttingthe Site
          9. Proposed Development Plan
          10. Soil AnalysisReport
          11. Preliminaiy StormwalerDesignReport
          12. ProposedStonnwatcrPlan
          13. Phasing Plan-N/A
          14. Traffic Profile, Circularion Plan & Sight Distance
      ***15. SEPAN/A***
          16. SewerUtility ReviewLetter
           17. Water Utility Review Letter
           IS. Public Health Review Letter
          19. Preliminary BoundarySurveyWA
          20. School Bus Transportation Letter
          21, DAI[P Confirmation
          22. PlannedUnit Developnnent, Mbied Use, MasterPlan &
               Type II.A NeighborhoodMeeting- N/A
          23. Covenants & Rcstrirtions -N?A




For this Type III site-specific rezone from R-12 to R-22 is a significant nonproject action
that nearly doubles allowable density limits, heavily impacting localized infrastructure,
ecological systems, and public safety. By passing a standalone State Environmental
Policy Act (SEPA) environmental checklist is legally premature, factually incorrect, and
explicitly strips the public of due process for the following critical reasons:

1. Deferral to an Unapproved Comprehensive Plan Update is Premature and
Unlawful The applicant is attempting to bypass a localized SEPA review by relying on
the overarching Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) tied to the county's 2025-2045
Comprehensive Growth Management Plan Update. However, the dark County
Council has not yet approved, finalized, or legally enacted this Comprehensive
Plan Update.
Until the new plan is fully adopted by the County Council and clears the statutory
Growth Management Act (GMA) appeal windows, it does not govern this parcel. The
active, legally binding law of the land requires a site-specific SEPA checklist for a
density increase of this magnitude. Relying on a pending legislative framework to
grant a SEPA exemption today is a direct violation of Washington State land use laws.

2. The Inclusion of Soil and Stormwater Reports Proves Localized Environmental
Risks The developer's own submittal packet includes Item #10 (Soil Analysis Report)
and Item #11 (Preliminary Stormwater Design Report) The presence of these reports is
clear evidence that localized geologic and hydrologic impacts exist on this 0. 88-acre
site. Standing alone, engineering reports cannot substitute for a formal SEPA review
framework. Because this high-density project sits directly adjacent to established single-
family housing and sits within close proximity to the sensitive Salmon Creek Greenway
watershed, a formal SEPA checklist must be processed to evaluate how high-density
impervious surfaces will affect the localized water table and surrounding urban runoff.

3. County Engineering Records (Exhibit 111) Document Serious, Unresolved
Traffic Deficiencies
In the newly issued Technical Road Modification Report Addendum dated September
24, 2026 dark County Development Engineering staff explicitly noted that "stopping
sight distance was not evaluated" by the applicant. The county documents that the
site sits on a high-speed 40 MPH Minor Arterial and directly violates standard driveway
safety spacing rules under CCC 40.350.030, noting a sub-standard gap to the adjacent
driveway to the south. The county's subsequent requirement for a localized "crash
history" analysis under Condition #3 proves that severe, active traffic hazards exist at
this 4-way intersection.

4. Unlawful Deferral of Safety Analyses to "Final Engineering" Strips the Public of
Due Process Most egregiously, Exhibit 111 states that the applicant may submit their
sight distance certification and updated Technical Road Modification details during
"Final Engineering" to address deficiencies.

"Final Engineering" is an administrative process that occurs entirely behind closed
doors after land-use approvals are granted. A site's crash history, sub-standard
driveway spacing on a 40 MPhl arterial, and blind spot sight-distances are fundamental
public safety hazards, not minor structural design details. Deferring these analyses to a
non-public phase prevents the community from reviewing the data, denies neighbors
the right to present conflicting expert testimony, and forces the Hearings Examiner to
sign a blank check without vital safety facts. The public has a legal right to review these
safety reports before the application goes to a public hearing.
Conclusion and Demand for Action

The developer cannot use future, unapproved legislation to duck their current legal
obligations. Because the Comprehensive Plan remains unapproved and the county's
own engineering department has formally flagged unresolved traffic safety deficiencies,
the applicant must be compelled to file a complete SEPA checklist, pay the requisite
environmental review fees, and undergo a transparent threshold determination.

The Hearing Examiner should deny the current application on the grounds of
insufficiency, dark County Community Development is urged to issue a determination
of incompleteness and immediately suspend all Type III administrative processing. No
formal public hearing should be scheduled or convened until the developer submits a
comprehensive SEPA report, alongside a complete Sight Distance Certification and
Crash History analysis, for public inspection and review.

Thank you for your time, review, and enforcement of Washington State's environmental
and public safety protections.

Sincerely,


JjW^ ^MM^-'
Terri Burnett
11706 NW 35th Ave
Vancouver, WA 98685
terrilburnett@gmail. com
360-921-1438
