                                   Exhibit 1




 CLARK
 2045
Clark County, Washington
Comprehensive Growth Management Plan
i
CLARK COUNTY
Comprehensive Growth Management Plan

AMENDMENTS


Original implementing ordinance: ORDINANCE NO. 2026-10-1

Amending Ordinances




                            Department of Community Planning
                                    1300 Franklin Street
                         P.O. Box 9810 Vancouver, WA 98666-9810
                                       360.397.2280
                             CommunityPlanning@clark.wa.gov
                  For other formats, contact the Clark County ADA Ofﬁce:
                 564.397.2322 / 711 or 800.833.6388 / ADA@clark.wa.gov


                                           iv
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

County Council                             Planning Commission
Sue Marshall, Chair                        Ron Barca
Glen Yung, Councilor                       Mark Bergthold
Michelle Belkot, Council                   Kyle Fadness
Wil Fuentes, Councilor                     Bryan Halbert
Matt Little, Councilor                     Jack Harroun, Vice-Chair
                                           Karl Johnson, Chair
                                           Alicia LeDuc Montgomery




Clark County Departments
County Manager’s Ofﬁce                     Geographic Information Services
• Kathleen Otto, County Manager            • Special Recognition
• April Furth, Deputy County Manager          o Garrett Ginter
                                              o Amanda Kowalski
Community Planning                            o Adrien Lepoutre
•  Oliver Orjiako, Director                • Contributors:
•  Jose Alvarez, Program Manager II           o Matt Dietemeyer
•  Gary Albrecht                              o Tyler Gundberg
•  Bart Catching                              o Erin Hennessey
•  Jeff Delapena                              o Jesse Manley
•  Susan Ellinger                             o Nels Mickaelson
•  Harrison Husting                           o Paul Newman
•  Jacqui Kamp                                o Shawn Preston
•  Jenna Kay
•  Amy Koski                               Public Works
•  Suzan Poisner                              • Ken Lader
•  Mike Sallis                                • Jeremy Provenzola
•  Larisa Sidorov
•  Sonja Wiser
•  Amy Wooten




                                       v
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

Consultants
3J Consulting
CAPA Strategies
DKS Associates
EcoNorthwest
Heath and Associates, Inc.
JET Planning
Kearns & West
Mosaic Resolutions
Parametrix, Inc.
Seaview Environmental Company
Triangle Associates

County Commissions
Several county commissions, advisory groups, and committees assisted in the development and
review of information for the creation of this plan. Thank you to the past and present members of
the Agricultural Advisory Commission, Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory Committee, Climate
Community Advisory Group, Commission on Aging, Development and Engineering Advisory
Board, Environmental Justice Coalition, Historic Preservation Commission, Project Agency Team
and Technical Coordinating Committee, Schools Advisory Council,



Members of the Public
To the many residents, neighborhood associations, community based organizations and business
associations who participated in this planning effort. Thank You.




                                                vi
TABLE OF CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION                                                3

COMMUNITY                                                   13
Framework Plan


CHAPTER 1                                                   30
Land Use Element


CHAPTER 2                                                   71
Housing Element


CHAPTER 3                                                  111
Rural & Natural Resource Element


CHAPTER 4                                                  135
Environmental Element


CHAPTER 5                                                  165
Transportation


CHAPTER 6                                                  235
Capital Facilities and Utilities Element


CHAPTER 7                                                  285
Parks, Recreation & Open Space Element


CHAPTER 8                                                  307
Historic, Archaeological & Cultural Preservation Element


CHAPTER 9                                                  315
Economic Development Element


CHAPTER 10                                                 326
School Element




                                             vii
TABLE OF CONTENTS

CHAPTER 11                        340
Community Design Element


CHAPTER 12                        348
Annexation Element


CHAPTER 13                        352
Shoreline Master Program


CHAPTER 14                        364
Climate Element


CHAPTER 15                        398
Procedural Guidelines


GLOSSARY                          408

ABBREVIATIONS                     420
and Acronyms




                           viii
Introduction
                                         CLARK2045

INTRODUCTION
"Cherish your visions and your dreams as they are the children of your soul, the blueprints of your
ultimate achievements." - Napoleon Hill

TRIBAL LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
Clark County’s planning area is located on the homelands of Chinookan People and Cowlitz Indian
Tribe. These sovereign tribal nations have stewarded through the generations the lands and
waters of this area. These nations enrich the region through environmental stewardship, cultural
heritage, and economic development. In planning for population growth over the coming decades,
the Clark County Comprehensive Plan seeks to respect and acknowledge the tribes’ legacy and
present-day contributions through the creation of livable, equitable, and sustainable communities
for current and future generations.

CLARK COUNTY, WASHINGTON
Often referred to as the cradle of the Paciﬁc Northwest, Clark County is rich in culture, history
and peoples.

Since time immemorial, Chinookan People and the Cowlitz Indian Tribe lived, hunted, ﬁshed, and
gathered in what is now Clark County. Countless tribes from across the Paciﬁc Northwest came to
this area to trade with one another by using the Columbia River and its adjoining waterways as an
intricate network of trade and travel routes.

Chinookan Indian villages dotted the banks of the Columbia River when explorers Capt.
Meriwether Lewis and 2nd Lt. William Clark’s Corps of Discovery Expedition arrived in 1805.
Twenty years later, the British-owned Hudson's Bay Company moved its headquarters from
Astoria, Ore., to establish Fort Vancouver, one of the ﬁrst non-native settlements in Washington.

In 1843, Clark County began as a district established by the Oregon Provisional Government and
encompassed most of what is now the state of Washington. In December 1844, Congress adopted
the most expansive American claim in the Oregon boundary dispute with Great Britain regarding
the Parallel 54°40′ north. A year later, the provisional government changed “district” to “county,”
and in 1849, changed “Vancouver” to “Clarke” in honor of the explorer William Clark. Many years
later, the Washington Legislature corrected the county’s name to Clark. In 1849, the Hudson's Bay
Company transferred its headquarters to Fort Victoria in British Columbia and abandoned Fort
Vancouver. The same year, American troops established what is now known as the Vancouver
Barracks, the largest military installation west of the Mississippi River.




3                                                                                        I NTRODUCTION
                                       CLARK2045
When Congress passed the Donation Land Claim Act on September 27, 1850, a rush of settlers
came in pursuit of a better future. By 1852, so many settlers came along the Oregon Trail that they
became known as the Great Migration. By the late 1800s the number of farms had grown, and
small settlements sprang up to service them and to process timber products.

With industrialization at the turn of the 20th century, followed by World War I, 1917-1919, and
World War II, 1941-1945, additional industries and people arrived in the area. Clark County
became home to the world’s largest spruce mill, the west coast’s ﬁrst aluminum manufacturing
plant, and the Vancouver Kaiser Shipyard.

During the second half of the 1900s, suburban-style growth began to take place in the area.

Today, approximately 540,000 residents live in eight municipalities surrounded by a rural
landscape and a Cowlitz Indian Tribe reservation. The seven cities and one town are:

1. Battle Ground: Incorporated in 1951, it lies in the heart of the agricultural belt and is home to
   the county’s oldest dairy.
2. Camas: Incorporated in 1906, it is on the northern bank of the Columbia River and charts its
   origin to a still-operating 1883 paper mill. Camas is the county’s second largest city.
3. La Center: Incorporated in 1909, it sits on the east fork of the Lewis River and was known as a
   business and navigation center for river commerce.
4. Ridgeﬁeld: Incorporated in 1909, it is on the bank of the Columbia River and was an important
   trading center.
5. Vancouver: Incorporated in 1857, it is on the north bank of the Columbia River and ﬂourished
   as a waterfront town. It is the fourth largest city in the state and the second largest city in the
   Portland metropolitan area.
6. Washougal: Incorporated in 1908, it is at the gateway to the Columbia River Gorge. It was a
   terminus for Columbia River riverboat trafﬁc and home to Pendleton, a woolen mill
   established in 1908.
7. Woodland: Incorporated in 1906, it ﬂourished as a waterfront town at the conﬂuence of the
   Columbia and Lewis rivers. Woodland straddles Cowlitz and Clark counties.
8. Town of Yacolt: Incorporated in 1908, it is situated north of the East Fork of the Lewis River
   and was a major logging hub connected to a cross county railroad.

On April 1, 2025, the state Ofﬁce of Financial Management ranked Clark County the ﬁfth most
populated county in the state. It is home to Washington State University Vancouver, Clark College
and tech business clusters.


GEOGRAPHY & CLIMATE
Located in southwest Washington State, Clark County is approximately 70 miles from the Paciﬁc
Ocean. It is physically compact, measuring approximately 25 miles across in either direction
encompassing 656 square miles. The Columbia River forms the western and southern boundaries
of the county with over 40 miles of river frontage. The Columbia is the only fresh-water harbor for


I NTRODUCTION                                                                                        4
                                      CLARK2045
ocean-going commerce on the entire west coast of North America. While the Columbia River
forms the county’s southern and western boundaries, the Lewis River forms the northern
perimeter and the Cascade Mountain range the eastern border.

Clark County lies within a geographic basin created by the Cascade and Paciﬁc Coast mountain
ranges. The climate in the county is inﬂuenced by this geography which produces mild wet winters
and moderately dry summers. Average annual rainfall is 66.95 inches with nearly 90 percent of
annual precipitation falling between the months of October and May. December has an average
low temperature of 34.3°F. August has an average high temperature of 79.8°F. The marine
inﬂuence of the Paciﬁc Ocean contributes much to the temperate climate.


C O M P R E H EN S I V E P L AN N IN G
Clark County, as with any rapidly urbanizing area, is constantly adapting to meet the need of its
residents. A brief summary of planning history is below:

1935 Clark County established the ﬁrst county planning department and planning commission.

1961 Clark County adopts ﬁrst Comprehensive Plan (1961 Plan) on April 27, 1961 with the
     corresponding map on October 2, 1961. In 1959, the state legislature approved a new
     statute (Chapter 36.70 Revised Code of Washington), which applied speciﬁcally to county,
     regional and joint planning programs. [Commissioner’s Journal book 25929 and 16235
     respectively]

1979 Clark County adopts second Comprehensive Plan (1979 Plan) on May 10, 1979. The plan
     included a map that identiﬁed appropriate levels of development on all lands in Clark
     County. In rural areas, the plan designated and conserved forest, agricultural and mining
     land while setting varying levels of housing densities for rural residential areas. The 1979
     Plan also identiﬁed areas appropriate for urban intensity housing, commercial and
     industrial development. Urban growth areas were adopted around each city along with
     adopted policies which limited the types of services permitted outside of urban areas.
     These policies were intended to help protect the rural character of rural lands and focus
     urban development within urban areas. The plan also included chapters related to
     transportation planning (including adopting an arterial road plan as a part of the
     countywide plan map), identifying heritage areas and creating policies on improving
     community appearance. [ORD. 1979-05-461]

1980 Countywide zoning was applied that helped implement the newly adopted comprehensive
     plan. [ORD. 1980-06-80]

1990 The state legislature adopted the Growth Management Act (GMA) as Chapter 36.70A
     RCW.

1993 Community Framework Plan adopted on May 26, 1993. [ORD. 1993-05-41]



5                                                                                  I NTRODUCTION
                                    CLARK2045
1994 Clark County 20-year Comprehensive Growth Management Plan 1994-2014 (1994 Plan)
     resulted in a total of 41,229 acres or 64.42 square miles of urban growth areas. [ORD.
     1994-12-47 and 1994-12-53] The 1994 Plan was remanded by the Western Washington
     Growth Management Hearings Board (GMHB) for inconsistency between population
     projections and capital facilities planning. The 1994 Plan also faced 67 appellants. To
     comply with the hearings board ﬁndings and subsequent appeals the county revisited the
     35,000 acre Agri-Forest designation and Rural Centers. [ORD. 1998-07-19] The remaining
     3,500 acre review of non-resource designation was resolved in 2003. [ORD. 2003-09-12]

2004 Clark County 20-year Comprehensive Growth Management Plan 2004-2024 (2004 Plan)
     resulted in 6,124 acres or 9.57 square miles of urban growth areas added. There were 14
     appellants that challenged the 2004 Plan. The Community Framework Plan was amended
     and incorporated into the 2004 Plan. [ORD. 2004-09-02]

2007 Revision of 2004 Plan (2007 Plan) added 12,023 acres to urban growth areas. Appeals
     challenged the 2007 Plan, arguing the county had erroneously moved 4,351 acres from
     agricultural designation to a non-resource designation and included those lands within
     urban growth areas. As a result of the appeals process, 1,500 acres of rezoned land was
     ruled invalid and those lands were removed from urban growth areas and again designated
     as agricultural lands. [ORD. 2007-09-13], [ORD. 2009-12-15], [ORD. 2014-07-03]

2016 Clark County 20-year Comprehensive Growth Management Plan 2015-2035 (2016 Plan)
     focused on land for jobs. The plan expanded the urban growth area (UGA) boundaries by
     approximately 250 acres and created two Rural Industrial Land Banks totaling 600 acres.
     Appeals challenged the plan regarding de-designation of agricultural land. The cities of
     Ridgeﬁeld and La Center annexed the land prior to the GMHB decision. The GMHB found
     the de-designation unlawful, but the Court of Appeals determined the issue was moot due
     to the annexation. The GMHB also found the de-designation of the 600 acres for a rural
     industrial land bank unlawful. The Court of Appeals upheld the GMHB decision and the
     WA Supreme Court did not intervene. The 600 acres were returned to an agricultural
     designation. [ORD. 2016-06-12], [ORD. 2017-04-14], [ORD. 2017-06-04], [ORD. 2017-07-
     04], [ORD. 2018-12-64], [ORD. 2019-11-16]

2025 Clark County 20-year Comprehensive Growth Management Plan 2025-2045 (2025 Plan)
     focused on addressing new GMA requirements on planning for housing by income bands
     and climate change. [ORD. 2026-10-01]

GROWTH MANAGEMENT
In 1990, the Washington State Legislature passed the Growth Management Act of 1990 (GMA).
The GMA requires that counties and cities with state oversight plan and control where and how
much growth occurs. The comprehensive plans developed by communities under this mandate will
guide land use decisions in the future. Comprehensive plans must respond to the requirements of
the GMA and all subsequent amendments.


I NTRODUCTION                                                                                  6
                                      CLARK2045
The GMA initially established thirteen planning goals to guide the creation and adoption of
comprehensive plans and development regulations in the counties and cities that are required to
or choose to plan under the Act. These goals provided the basis for the policies in the Community
Framework Plan. A fourteenth goal was added in 2003, and a ﬁfteenth goal was added in 2023.

The GMA has been amended numerous times since its original adoption. A list summarizing the
amendments made by the legislature and other related statutes are included in the Appendix. All
applicable Revised Code of Washington (RCW) changes are included in the 2025 Plan.


G R O W T H M A N AG E M E N T A C T G O A L S
    1. Urban growth. Encourage development in urban areas where adequate public facilities
       and services exist or can be provided in an efﬁcient manner.
    2. Reduce sprawl. Reduce the inappropriate conversion of undeveloped land into sprawling,
       low-density development.
    3. Transportation. Encourage efﬁcient multimodal transportation systems that will reduce
       greenhouse gas emissions and per capita vehicle miles traveled, and are based on regional
       priorities and coordinated with county and city comprehensive plans.
    4. Housing. Plan for and accommodate housing affordable to all economic segments of the
       population of this state, promote a variety of residential densities and housing types, and
       encourage preservation of existing housing stock.
    5. Economic development. Encourage economic development throughout the state that is
       consistent with adopted comprehensive plans, promote economic opportunity for all
       citizens of this state, especially for unemployed and for disadvantaged persons, promote
       the retention and expansion of existing businesses and recruitment of new businesses,
       recognize regional differences impacting economic development opportunities, and
       encourage growth in areas experiencing insufﬁcient economic growth, all within the
       capacities of the state's natural resources, public services, and public facilities.
    6. Property rights. Private property shall not be taken for public use without just
       compensation having been made. The property rights of landowners shall be protected
       from arbitrary and discriminatory actions.
    7. Permits. Applications for both state and local government permits should be processed in
       a timely and fair manner to ensure predictability.
    8. Natural resource industries. Maintain and enhance natural resource-based industries,
       including productive timber, agricultural, and ﬁsheries industries. Encourage the
       conservation of productive forestlands and productive agricultural lands, and discourage
       incompatible uses.




7                                                                                  I NTRODUCTION
                                      CLARK2045
   9. Open space and recreation. Retain open space and green space, enhance recreational
      opportunities, enhance ﬁsh and wildlife habitat, increase access to natural resource lands
      and water, and develop parks and recreation facilities.
   10. Environment. Protect and enhance the environment and enhance the state's high quality
       of life, including air and water quality, and the availability of water.
   11. Citizen participation and coordination. Encourage the involvement of citizens in the
       planning process, including the participation of vulnerable populations and overburdened
       communities, and ensure coordination between communities and jurisdictions to reconcile
       conﬂicts.
   12. Public facilities and services. Ensure that those public facilities and services necessary to
       support development shall be adequate to serve the development at the time the
       development is available for occupancy and use without decreasing current service levels
       below locally established minimum standards.
   13. Historic preservation. Identify and encourage the preservation of lands, sites, and
       structures, that have historical or archaeological signiﬁcance.
   14. Climate change and resiliency. Ensure that comprehensive plans, development
       regulations, and regional policies, plans, and strategies under RCW 36.70A.210 and
       chapter 47.80 RCW adapt to and mitigate the effects of a changing climate; support
       reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and per capita vehicle miles traveled; prepare for
       climate impact scenarios; foster resiliency to climate impacts and natural hazards; protect
       and enhance environmental, economic, and human health and safety; and advance
       environmental justice.
   15. Shorelines of the state. For shorelines of the state, the goals and policies of the shoreline
       management act as set forth in RCW 90.58.020 shall be considered an element of the
       county's or city's comprehensive plan.

COMMUNITY FRAMEWORK PLAN
The Community Framework Plan was adopted in 1993; amended in 2000, 2001 , 2004 and 2025.
The extensive citizen participation process to develop the Community Framework Plan resulted in
the expression of a wide variety of options regarding appropriate population densities, property
rights, provision of public facilities and services and whether all urban development should occur
within cities. It is a visioning document that provides guidance to local jurisdictions on regional
land use and service issues. The 2025 Plan is consistent with the concepts put forward in the
Community Framework Plan.

COUNTYWIDE PLANNING POLICIES
The GMA, under RCW 36.70A.210, requires counties and cities to collaboratively develop
Countywide Planning Policies (CWPP) to govern the development of comprehensive plans. The
Washington Administrative Code (WAC) 365-196-305 deﬁnes “the primary purpose of CWPP is


I NTRODUCTION                                                                                          8
                                      CLARK2045
to ensure consistency between comprehensive plans of counties and cities sharing a common
border or related regional issues. Another purpose of the CWPP is to facilitate the transformation
of local governance in the urban growth areas, typically through annexation to or incorporation of
a city, so that urban governmental services are primarily provided by cities and rural and regional
services are provided by counties.” In response to this requirement, CWPP were adopted in 1994;
amended in 2004, 2007, 2016, and 2026; and are provided in each relevant element.

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ORGANIZATION & USE
The 2025 Plan is designed to reﬂect the uniqueness of Clark County and seeks to preserve those
qualities. The 2025 Plan has been written to recognize and reinforce the positive characteristics
which make Clark County a special place. The 2025 Plan builds upon the efforts undertaken during
the process of developing the Community Framework Plan, 1994 Plan, 2004 Plan, 2007 Plan, and
2016 Plan.

The organization of the 2025 Plan is described in the following outline. It is presumed that city
policies are consistent with the county's plan. The major components of the 2025 Plan are as
follows:

    Introduction

    Community Framework Plan

    Chapter 1: The Land Use Element describes the way in which the Plan will allocate land for
    different purposes and will permit or encourage development at differing densities.

    Chapter 2: The Housing Element describes housing needs and the direction the county and its
    cities will take to inﬂuence the type, location and affordability of housing throughout the
    county. The issues addressed include fair share housing, inﬁll, accessory units and special
    needs housing.

    Chapter 3: The Rural and Natural Resource Element describes the designation and proposed
    level of development for rural and natural resource lands in the county.

    Chapter 4: The Environmental Element describes speciﬁc environmental goals and
    requirements as the basis for development regulations and general goals for land use planning
    and parks acquisition. Additionally, the element describes critical areas including wetlands,
    water recharge areas and wildlife habitat that are to be protected throughout the county.

    Chapter 5: The Transportation Element describes the way in which key transportation
    components, including roadways, transit, freight, aviation and bicycle and pedestrian
    movement have been planned and integrated into other elements of the 20-Year Plan to
    further environmental, economic and other goals and policies. It highlights policies on various
    modes of transportation, identiﬁes concurrency issues and includes capital facilities planning
    for transportation.



9                                                                                   I NTRODUCTION
                                    CLARK2045
  Chapter 6: The Capital Facilities and Utilities Element describes the investment in public
  infrastructure needed to support the land use, housing, transportation and economic
  development elements. Emphasis is on water, sewer and storm drainage, with ﬁre protection,
  law enforcement, schools, libraries, government buildings and other facility needs also being
  discussed.

  Chapter 7: The Parks, Recreation and Open Space Element describes the direction and
  strategies to provide for parks and open space in the county. This element is linked to the land
  use plan and the proposed densities to guide the acquisition and development of parks. Plans
  for urban (active) parks, regional parks, open spaces and trails are discussed.

  Chapter 8: The Historic, Archaeological and Cultural Preservation Element describes
  directions and strategies to recognize and ﬁnance protection of historical and archaeological
  sites in the county.

  Chapter 9: The Economic Development Element describes the policy direction and
  implementation strategies to provide for increased employment opportunities and higher
  family wages in the county. This element is linked to the land use and transportation elements
  as an integral part of the Plan.

  Chapter 10: The School Element describes the policy direction and goals to provide full
  consideration to the importance of school facilities and encourage the development of
  sustainable learning environments.

  Chapter 11: The Community Design Element describes policies and strategies to provide for
  design standards and the framework for consistent development in the county. Like historical
  and critical areas, community design is an element that can assist the community in achieving
  its potential. This element is included in order to encourage better designed development in
  the future.

  Chapter 12: The Annexation Element describes the intent of designating areas within the
  urban growth boundary and provides for the annexation of the county’s urban areas to cities.

  Chapter 13: The Shoreline Master Program Element contains Clark County’s Shoreline
  Master Program Goals and Policies. These goals and policies are implemented by Chapter
  40.460 of the Clark County Code. These goals and policies along with Chapter 40.460 and the
  Ofﬁcial Shoreline Map are adopted as the Clark County Shoreline Master Program.

  Chapter 14: The Climate Element describes the goals and policies to guide county climate
  action over the 20-year planning period to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, enhance
  resilience to the adverse impacts of climate change, and advance environmental justice. This
  element links to multiple other elements in the Plan.

  Chapter 15: The Procedural Guidelines Element describes how the plan is to be used and
  processes for amending and updating the plan.



I NTRODUCTION                                                                                   10
                                      CLARK2045
P U B L I C P AR T IC I P A T I O N
The GMA requires the county and cities to conduct outreach to ensure early and continuous
public participation in developing and amending comprehensive plans and development
regulations in RCW 36.70A.140. The GMA also requires that local programs clearly identify
schedules and procedures for public participation in the periodic update process in RCW
36.70A.130(2)(a). The county developed the Clark County Comprehensive Plan 2025 Update Public
Participation Plan and Preliminary Scope of Work to satisfy these requirements [RES. 2023-03-05].
The county also developed the Clark County Climate Change & Resiliency Element Public Participation
Plan to supplement the already adopted Clark County Comprehensive Plan 2025 Update Public
Participation Plan and Preliminary Scope of Work to address public participation as it relates to
development of a Climate Change and Resiliency Element [RES. 2023-11-14].


I N T E G R AT I O N W IT H O T H E R P L A N S
The 2025 Plan serves as an umbrella plan to ensure that the following plans are compatible and
advance the goals described in the Comprehensive Plan:

     •   Highway 99 Subarea Plan, December 16, 2008
     •   Agriculture Preservation Strategies Report, March 2009
     •   Mill Creek Subarea Plan, June 23, 2009
     •   Clark County Bicycle and Pedestrian Plan, December 2010
     •   Clark County Comprehensive Economic Development Plan, 2024
     •   Coordinated Water System Plan, January 2012, most recently amended July 19, 2022
     •   Aging Readiness Plan, September 26, 2023
     •   Growing Healthier Planning for a Healthier Clark County Report, June 5, 2012
     •   Clark County Conservation Areas Acquisition Plan, November 2021
     •   Clark County Community Development Block Grant Program and Home Investment
         Partnerships Program Consolidated Housing and Community Development Plan 2025-
         2029
     •   Clark County Comprehensive Parks, Recreation and Open Space Plan, April, 2022
     •   Clark County Housing Options Study and Action Plan, May 17, 2022, incorporated by
         reference

The 2025 Plan also incorporates the following regional plans by reference:

     •   Clark Regional Natural Hazard Mitigation Plan Volume 1 – Planning Area-Wide Elements,
         March 31, 2023
     •   Clark Regional Natural Hazard Mitigation Plan Volume 2 – Planning Partner Annexes,
         March 31, 2023




11                                                                                I NTRODUCTION
Community
FRAMEWORK PLAN
                                       CLARK2045

COMMUNITY
Framework Plan

THE COMMUNITY VISION
The Community Framework Plan encourages growth in urban growth areas and rural centers, with
each area center separate and distinct from the others. These centers of development are of
different sizes; they may contain different combinations of housing, shopping and employment
areas. Each provides places to live and work. The centers are oriented and developed around
neighborhoods to allow residents the ability to easily move through and to feel comfortable within
areas that create a distinct sense of place and community.

In order to achieve this, development in each of the urban growth areas would have a higher
average density than currently exists. In parts of the urbanizing area, Clark County and each local
jurisdiction will plan for and provide housing based on the allocation and at the income levels in
the Housing for All Planning Tool (HAPT) in Appendix J. This variety of housing types and sizes
would provide more opportunities for builders to provide affordable and attainable housing for
ﬁrst-time home buyers, retirees and lower-income families.

Each urban growth area would have a mix of land uses with housing, businesses and services
appropriate to its character and location. For example, the Vancouver Mall area would continue to
be a retail center, downtown Vancouver will continue to be a center of ﬁnance and government,
Brush Prairie and Hockinson as rural centers with community commercial areas and the Mount
Vista area will be a center of research and education. Residential development appropriate to the
needs of the workers and residents in these areas would be encouraged nearby. A primary goal of
the plan is to provide housing in close proximity to jobs resulting in shorter vehicle trips and allows
densities along public transit corridors that support high capacity transit, either bus or light rail.

Outside of urban growth areas, the land is predominantly rural with farms, forests, open space and
large lot residences. Shopping or businesses would be in rural centers. Urban levels of public
services would generally not be provided in rural areas. Rural residents are provided level-of-
service appropriate to their areas. These areas are, by deﬁnition, more rural in nature and
residents are more self-sufﬁcient, often relying on private wells and septic systems. Most of
northern Clark County would remain as it is today, in resource based industries or rural use
protecting, conserving and enhancing critical stream and riparian habitat essential to supporting
and recovering salmonid populations throughout the county. To implement the Community
Framework Plan, the county, towns and cities are amending certain land use and development
policies in their 20-year comprehensive plans. The framework policies to guide future detailed
policies are discussed in the next section.



13                                                                COMMUNITY F RAMEWORK P LAN
                                      CLARK2045
POLICIES
In order to achieve the vision of Clark County as a collection of distinct communities surrounded
by open space, agriculture and forest uses, Clark County and each of the cities will adopt certain
types of policies. The general framework policies are outlined below by element of the
Comprehensive Growth Management Plan (20-Year Plan). The process-oriented countywide planning
policies which were adopted by the county in August 1992 and amended in 2000, 2004, 2007,
2016, and 2025 are found in each applicable plan element. The framework policies guide
implementation of the vision of Clark County's future preferred by many of its residents. The
policies provide a framework within which the county can bridge the gap between the general land
use concepts presented in the Community Framework Plan and the detailed (parcel level) 20-Year
Plan required by the State Growth Management Act. Supplemental to the Community Framework
Plan, the county and each jurisdiction, can develop more speciﬁc policies for the their required 20-
year time frame, in order to ensure that the resulting plans will work to achieve the overall vision
of the future for Clark County.


1          LAND USE
The Land Use Element for 20-year comprehensive plans determine the general distribution and
location and extent of the uses of land, where appropriate, for agriculture, timber production,
housing, commerce, industry, recreation, open spaces, public utilities, public facilities and other
uses. The Land Use Element includes population densities, building intensities and estimates of
future population growth. The land use-related issues such as protection of groundwater
resources, stormwater run-off, ﬂooding and drainage problems are discussed in detail in the
Environmental Element, Chapter 4 of this document. The following framework policies are to
guide the efforts of the county and cities in designating land uses, densities and intensities to
achieve the pattern described above in their respective Comprehensive Growth Management
Plans.

1.1        Framework Plan Policies

           1.1.0       Establish a hierarchy of urban growth areas activity centers and rural
                       centers. Hierarchy of Urban Growth Areas and Rural Centers: All planning
                       should be in the form of complete and integrated communities containing
                       housing, shops, work places, schools, parks and civic facilities essential to
                       the daily life of the residents. Community size should be designed so that
                       housing, jobs, daily needs and other activities are within easy walking
                       distance of each other.

           1.1.1       Urban Growth Area Centers (UGA) have a full range of urban level-of-
                       services and can be divided into three main categories in the following
                       density tiers:




C OMMUNITY F RAMEWORK P LAN                                                                           14
                               CLARK2045
              •     Vancouver Urban Growth Area is now or will be a major urban area
                    activity centers with a full range of residential, commercial and
                    industrial uses, high-capacity transit (HCT) corridors, schools, major
                    cultural and public facilities. Major urban areas centers, have or will
                    have, urban densities of development. Areas along high capacity transit
                    corridors and priority public transit corridors may have higher than
                    average densities while other areas would have lower densities (e.g.
                    established neighborhoods and neighborhoods on the fringes of the
                    urban area). Regional institutions and services (government, museums,
                    etc.) should be located in the urban core.
              •     Urban Growth Areas of Battle Ground, Camas, Ridgeﬁeld and
                    Washougal will have a full range of residential, commercial and
                    industrial uses, schools, neighborhood, community and regional parks,
                    within walking distance to HCT corridors or public transit. These areas
                    will have employment opportunities and lower densities than major
                    urban area centers. Higher densities occur along transit corridors and in
                    the community center, with lower densities in established
                    neighborhoods and on the outskirts of the community. These urban
                    growth areas centers should have a center focus that combines
                    commercial, civic, cultural and recreational uses.
              •     Urban Growth Areas of La Center and Woodland will have
                    predominantly residential uses and include pedestrian-oriented
                    commercial uses, schools and small parks.
              •     There are no standards for the Yacolt urban growth area due to lack of
                    public sewer. A mix of residential uses and densities are or will be
                    permitted. Neighborhoods are to have a focus around parks, schools, or
                    common areas.

      1.1.2   Rural Centers are outside of urban growth area centers and urban reserve
              areas and provide public facilities (e.g., ﬁre stations, post ofﬁces, schools)
              and commercial facilities to support rural lifestyles. Rural centers have
              residential densities consistent with the surrounding rural minimum lot
              sizes and do not have a full range of urban levels-of-services.

1.2   Urban Areas

      1.2.0   Establish consistent regional criteria to determine the size of urban growth
              areas for the 20-year comprehensive plans that:

              •     assume the need for a residential market factor – lands added to the
                    amount called for in the population forecast to build in ﬂexibility;
              •     include a household size consistent with the Department of
                    Commerce’s Housing for All Planning Tool (HAPT);


15                                                       COMMUNITY F RAMEWORK P LAN
                                CLARK2045
                 •   conserve designated agriculture, forest or mineral resource lands;
                 •   utilize innovative programs, including the transfer of development
                     rights;
                 •   ensure an adequate supply of buildable land;
                 •   have the anticipated ﬁnancial capability to provide
                     infrastructure/services needed for the 20-year growth management
                     population projections; and,
                 •   balance industrial, commercial and residential lands.

        1.2.1    Establish consistent regional criteria for urban growth area boundaries for
                 the 20-year comprehensive plans that consider the following:

                 •   geographic, topographic and man-made features; (such as drainages,
                     steep slopes, riparian corridors, wetland areas, etc.);
                 •   public facility and service availability, limits and extensions;
                 •   jurisdictional and special district boundaries;
                 •   location of designated natural resource lands and critical areas; and,
                 •   minimize split designations of parcels.

1.3     Urban Reserves

        1.3.0    Establish criteria for new fully contained communities to ensure that the
                 appropriate public facilities and services are available. Large scale
                 residential only developments are not considered as fully contained
                 communities.

        1.3.1    The county and jurisdictions within the county are to deﬁne urban reserve
                 areas (land reserved for future development after 20 years), where
                 appropriate, to allow an orderly conversion of land adjacent to designated
                 urban growth areas to urban densities, as demonstrated by the need to
                 expand the developable land supply or by regional industrial or public
                 facility needs.

        1.3.2    The county, cities and towns are to work cooperatively, to develop policies
                 governing transition of urban reserve areas between the urban growth area
                 set by the 20-Year Comprehensive Growth Management Plans and the
                 urban areas conceptualized by the longer-term Community Framework Plan.
                 Such policies are to:

                 •   encourage urban growth in cities and towns ﬁrst, then in their urban
                     growth areas and ﬁnally in the urban reserve area;
                 •   ensure that any development permitted is consistent with the level of
                     urbanization of the adjacent areas;



C OMMUNITY F RAMEWORK P LAN                                                                   16
                                      CLARK2045
                       •   identify major capital facilities and utilities, provide locational and
                           timing criteria for development of these facilities and utilities; and,
                       •   include a mechanism to ensure that major capital facilities and utilities
                           are constructed when needed.

           1.3.3       Develop criteria for uses within urban reserve areas to allow a reasonable
                       use without preempting future transition to urban growth. Techniques that
                       enable the urban reserve to be maintained include but are not limited to:
                       • conservation easements;
                       •
                       • tax assessments;
                       • pre-planning of lots and the clustering of units; and,
                       • other innovative techniques.


2          HOUSING
The Housing Element is to recognize the vitality and character of established residential
neighborhoods and identify sufﬁcient land for housing to accommodate a range of housing types
and prices. The goal is to make adequate provision for existing and projected housing needs of all
economic segments of the community. These policies are intended to coordinate the housing
policies of Clark County and its jurisdictions to ensure that all existing and future residents are
housed in safe and sanitary housing appropriate to their needs and within their means.

2.1        Framework Plan Policies

           2.1.0       Communities, urban and rural, should contain a diversity of housing types
                       to enable citizens from a wide range of economic levels and age groups to
                       live within its boundaries and to ensure an adequate supply of affordable
                       and attainable housing. Housing options available in the county include
                       single family neighborhoods and mixed use neighborhoods (e.g., housing
                       above commercial storefronts, traditional grid single family neighborhoods,
                       townhouses, multi-family developments, accessory units, boarding homes,
                       cooperative housing and congregate housing).

           2.1.1       Establish density targets with jurisdictions in the county for different types
                       of communities, consistent with the deﬁnitions of Urban Growth Areas and
                       Rural Centers.

           2.1.2       Provide housing opportunities close to places of employment.

           2.1.3       Establish maximum as well as minimum lot sizes and densities in urban
                       areas.




17                                                               COMMUNITY F RAMEWORK P LAN
                                CLARK2045
        2.1.4    All cities, towns and the county share the responsibility for achieving a
                 rational and equitable distribution of affordable housing.

        2.1.5    Coordinate with C-TRAN to identify and adopt appropriate densities for
                 priority transit corridors. Ensure that the development standards for these
                 areas are transit and pedestrian friendly. Transportation and housing
                 strategies are to be coordinated to assure reasonable access to a variety of
                 transportation systems and to encourage housing opportunities in
                 locations that support development of cost effective and convenient public
                 transportation for all segments of the population.

        2.1.6    Encourage inﬁll development that enhances the existing community
                 character and provide a mix of housing types in all urban and rural centers.
                 All cities and towns are to encourage inﬁll housing as the ﬁrst priority for
                 meeting the housing needs of the community.

        2.1.7    Encourage creative approaches to housing design to:

                 •   accommodate higher densities attractively;
                 •   increase housing affordability;
                 •   ensure that inﬁll development ﬁts with the character of the existing
                     neighborhood; and,
                 •   develop demonstration projects to assist the private sector to achieve
                     inﬁll goals.

        2.1.8    Housing strategies are to be coordinated with availability of public facilities
                 and services, including human services.

        2.1.9    All cities, towns and the county are to provide for a variety of housing types
                 and designs to meet the needs of people with special needs (for example
                 those with physical, emotional, or mental disabilities), recognizing that not
                 all housing will become accessible to special needs populations.

        2.1.10   Establish a mechanism for identifying and mitigating adverse impacts on
                 housing production and housing cost which result from adoption of new
                 development regulations or fees.

        2.1.11   Encourage and permit development of inter-generational housing, assisted
                 living options and accessory units in order to allow people with special
                 needs and senior citizens to live independently as possible and to reduce
                 the need for (and cost of) social services.

        2.1.12   All cities, towns and the county are to provide increased ﬂexibility in the
                 use of new and existing housing development to increase the potential for




C OMMUNITY F RAMEWORK P LAN                                                                  18
                                       CLARK2045
                       re-use, preservation of existing affordable housing, shared living quarters,
                       use of accessory structures as housing, etc.

           2.1.13      Housing strategies are to be coordinated with the ﬁnancial community and
                       are to be consistent with public and private ﬁnancing mechanisms.


3          RURAL & NATURAL RESOURCE ELEMENT
The policies below are to ensure the conservation of agricultural, forest and mineral resource
lands and protect these lands from interference by adjacent uses which affect the continued use,
in the accustomed manner, of these lands for production of food, agricultural products, or timber,
or the extraction of minerals.

3.1        Framework Plan Policies

           3.1.0       The county and its jurisdictions at a minimum are to consider agricultural
                       land based on Washington Administrative Code (WAC) 365-190-050.

           3.1.1       The county and its jurisdictions at a minimum are to consider forest land
                       based on WAC 365-190-060.

           3.1.2       The county and its jurisdictions at a minimum are to consider mineral
                       resource lands based on WAC 365-190-070.

           3.1.3       Identify agricultural land on parcels currently used or designated for
                       agricultural use and provide these parcels special protection.

           3.1.4       Identify forest land on parcels currently used or designated for forest use
                       and provide these parcels special protection.

           3.1.5       Encourage the conservation of large parcels which have prime agricultural
                       soils for agricultural use and provide these parcels special protection.

           3.1.6       Establish standards for compatible land uses on land designated for
                       agriculture, forest and mineral resource uses.

           3.1.7       Develop a range of programs (such as purchase of development rights,
                       easements, preferential tax programs, etc.) to provide property owners
                       incentives to maintain their land in natural resource uses.

           3.1.8       Mineral, forestry and agricultural operations are to implement best
                       management practices to minimize impacts on adjacent property.

           3.1.9       Public facility and/or utility availability are not to be used as justiﬁcation to
                       convert agriculture or forest land.



19                                                                 COMMUNITY F RAMEWORK P LAN
                                      CLARK2045
The policies below govern the use of rural lands which are not reserved for agriculture, forest, or
mineral resources, nor are they designated for urban development. Land uses, densities and
intensities of rural development are to be compatible with both adjacent urban areas and
designated natural resource lands.

3.2        Framework Plan Policies

           3.2.0       Rural areas should meet at least one of the following criteria:

                       •   opportunities exist for small scale farming and forestry which do not
                           qualify for resource land designation;
                       •   the area serves as buffer between designated resource land or sensitive
                           areas;
                       •   environmental constraints make the area unsuitable for intensive
                           development;
                       •   the area cannot be served by a full range of urban level-of-service; or,
                       •   the area is characterized by outstanding scenic, historic or aesthetic
                           values which can be protected by a rural designation.

           3.2.1       Recreational uses in rural areas should preserve open space and be
                       environmentally sensitive.

           3.2.2       Commercial development of appropriate scale for rural areas is encouraged
                       within rural centers.

           3.2.3       Establish large lot minimums for residential development appropriate to
                       maintain the character of the rural area.

           3.2.5       New master planned resorts are to meet the following criteria:

                       •   provide self-contained sanitary sewer systems approved by the Clark
                           County Department of Health;
                       •   be served by public water systems with urban levels of ﬁre ﬂow;
                       •   preserve and enhance unique scenic or cultural values;
                       •   focus primarily on short-term visitor accommodations rather than for-
                           sale vacation homes;
                       •   provide a full range of recreational amenities;
                       •   locate outside urban areas, but avoid adversely impacting designated
                           resource lands;
                       •   preserve and enhance sensitive lands (critical habitat, wetlands, critical
                           areas, etc.);
                       •   housing for employees only may be provided on or near the resort; and,




C OMMUNITY F RAMEWORK P LAN                                                                       20
                                      CLARK2045
                       •   comply with all applicable development standards for master planned
                           resorts, including mitigation of on and off-site impacts on public
                           services, utilities and facilities.

           3.2.6       Encourage the clustering of new development within a destination resort or
                       a designated rural center (village or hamlet). All new development should
                       be of a scale consistent with the existing rural character.

           3.2.7       Revise existing development standards and housing programs to permit
                       and encourage development of affordable housing for people who work in
                       resource-based industries in rural centers.


4          E N V IR O N M E N T AL C R IT I C AL A R E AS
All of the jurisdictions in Clark County have adopted interim measures to protect identiﬁed critical
areas within their boundaries. These measures must be reviewed and, if necessary, revised to
implement the Comprehensive Growth Management Plan. The following policies are to ensure a
coordinated approach to preservation of identiﬁed sensitive lands. The goal is to preserve
signiﬁcant critical areas as a part of a system of such areas, not as isolated reserves, wherever
possible.

4.1        Framework Plan Policies

           4.1.0       New developments are to protect and enhance sensitive areas and respect
                       natural constraints.

           4.1.1       Protect and improve the county's environmental quality while minimizing
                       public and private costs.

           4.1.2       In the long-term, all jurisdictions should work towards compatible
                       classiﬁcation systems for wetlands.

           4.1.3       Vulnerable aquifer recharge areas are to be regulated to protect the quality
                       and quantity of groundwater in the county.

           4.1.4       Establish development standards for uses, other than natural resource
                       uses, on sensitive lands (e.g., 100-year ﬂood plains, unstable soils, high-
                       value wetlands, etc.).

           4.1.5       Wetlands and watersheds are to be managed to protect surface and
                       groundwater quality and meet salmon recovery objectives.

           4.1.6       The county and jurisdictions are to work cooperatively with the
                       Washington State Department of Fish and Wildlife to develop programs
                       and areas that promote the preservation of habitats.



21                                                                COMMUNITY F RAMEWORK P LAN
                                       CLARK2045
5          T R A N S P O R T A T I ON
The Transportation Element is to implement and be consistent with the Land Use Element. The
Community Framework Plan envisions a shift in emphasis of transportation systems from private
vehicles to public transit (including high-capacity transit,) and non-polluting alternatives such as
walking and bicycling. The following policies are to coordinate the land use planning,
transportation system design and funding to achieve this vision.

5.1        Framework Plan Policies

           5.1.0       The regional land use planning structure is to be integrated within a larger
                       public transportation network (e.g., transit corridors, commercial nodes,
                       etc.).

           5.1.1       Encourage transportation systems that provide a variety of options (high
                       capacity transit, high-occupancy vehicles, buses, autos, bicycles or walking)
                       within and between and rural centers.

           5.1.2       Streets, pedestrian paths and bike paths are to be a part of a system of fully
                       connected and scenic routes to all destinations. Establish design standards
                       for development to promote these options and work cooperatively with C-
                       TRAN to ensure that programs for improvements in transit service and
                       facilities as well as roadway and pedestrian facilities are coordinated with
                       these standards.

           5.1.3       To reduce vehicle trips, encourage mixed land use and locate as many other
                       activities as possible to be located within easy walking and bicycling
                       distances from public transit stops.

           5.1.4       Encourage use of alternative types of transportation, particularly those
                       that reduce mobile emissions (bicycle, walking, carpools and public transit).

           5.1.5       Establish residential, commercial and industrial development standards
                       including road and parking standards, to support the use of alternative
                       transportation modes.

           5.1.6       Establish connections between Urban and Rural Centers through a variety
                       of transportation options.

           5.1.7       Establish regional level-of-service (LOS) standards for arterials and public
                       transportation that ensure preservation of the region's (rural and urban)
                       mobility while balancing the ﬁnancial, social and environmental impacts.

           5.1.8       Encourage a balanced transportation system and can be maintained at
                       acceptable level-of-service.



C OMMUNITY F RAMEWORK P LAN                                                                        22
                                       CLARK2045
           5.1.9       Establish major inter-modal transportation corridors that preserve mobility
                       for interstate commerce and freight movement (Promote inter-modal
                       connections to port, rail, truck, bus and air transportation facilities.
                       Preserve and improve linkages between the Port of Vancouver and other
                       regional transportation systems).

           5.1.10      Coordinate with C-TRAN, WSDOT and SWRTC to allow park-and-ride
                       facilities along regional transportation corridors.

           5.1.11      Encourage the development of smaller, community scale-park and ride
                       facilities in rural centers as the gateways to public transportation in non-
                       urban areas.


6          C A P I T AL F AC IL I T I E S & U T IL I T I E S
The Capital Facilities and Utilities Element will identify the need for capital facilities (such as
libraries, schools, police facilities and jails, ﬁre facilities, etc.) to accommodate expected growth
and establish policies to ensure that these facilities are available when the development is
occupied and to provide for the extension of public utilities to new development in a timely
manner. The following policies are to coordinate and be consistent with the work of the cities and
towns and special districts.

6.1        Framework Plan Policies

           6.1.0       Major public and private expenditures on facilities and services (including
                       libraries, schools, ﬁre stations, police, parks and recreation) are to be
                       encouraged ﬁrst in urban and rural centers.

           6.1.1       Establish level-of-service standards for capital facilities in urban and rural
                       areas.

           6.1.2       Coordinate with service providers to identify the land and facility
                       requirements of each and ensure that sufﬁcient land is provided in urban
                       and rural areas to accommodate these uses.

           6.1.3       Establish standards for location of public facilities and services in urban
                       growth areas, urban reserve areas and rural areas.

6.2        Framework Plan Policies

           6.2.0       Public sanitary sewer service will be permitted only within urban areas,
                       except to serve areas where imminent health hazards exist.

           6.2.1       Public sanitary sewer service should be extended throughout urban areas.
                       It is recommended that cities and towns and other sanitary sewer service



23                                                                COMMUNITY F RAMEWORK P LAN
                                CLARK2045
                 purveyors adopt policies that specify the circumstances under which
                 residents located within urban growth areas but outside of incorporated
                 areas would be required to connect to a sanitary sewer system once it
                 becomes available.

        6.2.2    Adequate public water service should be extended throughout urban areas.
                 (An "adequate" public water system is one that meets Washington State
                 requirements and provides minimum ﬁre ﬂow as required by the Fire
                 Marshal. Various levels of public water service are considered adequate,
                 depending upon the speciﬁc land uses and densities of development being
                 served.)

        6.2.3    When it is appropriate to provide public water service in rural areas, the
                 level-of-service may be lower than that which is provided in urban areas.
                 However, public water service in rural areas must meet the minimum
                 requirements for an adequate public water system, given the speciﬁc land
                 uses and densities being served.

        6.2.4    Construction of new private wells in urban areas should be discouraged.
                 New private wells will be considered only on an interim basis, until
                 adequate public water service becomes available to an area.

        6.2.5    Construction of new subsurface sewage disposal systems within urban
                 areas should be discouraged. It is recommended that cities and towns and
                 the county adopt policies that specify the circumstances under which the
                 construction of new subsurface sewage disposal systems would be
                 permitted, if they are permitted under any circumstance within urban
                 areas. If new subsurface disposal systems are permitted, it is suggested that
                 these systems be considered only as an interim measure, until public
                 sanitary sewer system becomes available.

        6.2.6    Support Clark County Public Health’s efforts to establish a mandatory
                 subsurface sewage disposal system inspection and maintenance program
                 for pre-existing and new systems located in areas that need special
                 protection from an environmental health perspective, as determined by
                 Clark County Public Health.

        6.2.7    Ensure compliance with Washington State requirements which call for a
                 proposed development to provide proof that there exists a source of public
                 or private domestic water which produces sufﬁcient quantity and quality of
                 water to meet minimum requirements before a development permit may be
                 issued.

        6.2.8    New wells may be constructed in rural areas, but only to serve
                 developments on rural lots that are without practical access to existing


C OMMUNITY F RAMEWORK P LAN                                                                 24
                                      CLARK2045
                       public water systems. Existing public water purveyors should be given an
                       opportunity to serve a new development. The ﬁrst opportunity to serve a
                       development should be given to the utility provider designated to serve the
                       area in which the development is proposed. If the designated utility cannot
                       serve the development, an adjacent utility should be given the opportunity
                       to serve the development. If an existing utility cannot serve the
                       development, construction of a new private or public well may be
                       permitted. This procedure is set forth in the Clark County Coordinated Water
                       System Plan Update, which was adopted by Clark County and the
                       Washington State Department of Health in 1991.

           6.2.9       The availability of public sanitary sewer and water services with capacities
                       beyond those which are minimally required to meet the needs of an area
                       will not presume or justify approval of a development that is inconsistent
                       with the Community Framework Plan.

           6.2.10      The Clark County Coordinated Water System Plan is designed to be
                       responsive to the county's Comprehensive Plan and other local
                       comprehensive plans and land use regulations intended to implement the
                       20-Year Comprehensive Plan. Public water system plans must be consistent
                       with the Coordinated Water System Plan and the Comprehensive Plan, as
                       provided under WAC 248-56.


7          P A R K S , R E C R E AT I O N & O P E N S P AC E
Although this element is not required by the Growth Management Act, Clark County and several
cities and towns intend to include a Parks, Recreation and Open Space Element in their plans
because provision of these facilities is essential to the livability of the urban area. The policies
listed below are to coordinate the planning for parks facilities, recreation programs and open
spaces to ensure that they are appropriately sited given expected growth patterns.

7.1        Framework Plan Policies

           7.1.0       Provide land for parks and open space in each urban growth area and rural
                       centers consistent with adopted level-of-service standards. Wherever
                       possible, the natural terrain, drainage and vegetation of the community
                       should be preserved with high quality examples contained within parks or
                       greenbelts.

           7.1.1       Use environmentally sensitive areas (critical areas) for open space and
                       where possible, use these areas to establish a well-deﬁned edge separating
                       urban areas from rural areas.




25                                                               COMMUNITY F RAMEWORK P LAN
                                     CLARK2045
           7.1.2      Regions should be bounded by and provide a continuous system of open
                      space/wildlife corridors to be determined by natural conditions. Where
                      appropriate connect open spaces to provide corridors, consistent with the
                      Metropolitan Greenspace Program.

           7.1.3      Coordinate with jurisdictions to establish consistent deﬁnitions of park
                      types and level-of-service standards for parks within urban areas.

           7.1.4      Coordinate the planning and development of parks and recreation facilities
                      with jurisdictions within the urban areas.

           7.1.5      Establish a countywide system of trails and bicycle paths both within and
                      between jurisdictions for recreational and commuter trips. Coordinate this
                      trail system with those of adjacent counties and Oregon jurisdictions.


8          H I S T O R I C P R E S ER V A T I O N
Clark County has a long and varied history, with many structures and sites remain which were a
part of that history. These structures and sites deﬁne the unique character of the county and its
communities. The historical record of our community should detail its abundant natural resources
and wildlife. The following policies are to ensure a coordinated approach to their preservation.

8.1        Framework Plan Policies

           8.1.0      The county, cities and towns are to identify federal, state and local historic
                      and archaeological lands, sites or structures of signiﬁcance within their
                      jurisdictions.

           8.1.1      Encourage owners of historic sites or structures to preserve and maintain
                      them in good condition, consistent with their historic character.

           8.1.2      Develop ﬁnancial and other incentive programs for owners of historic
                      properties to maintain their properties and make them available
                      periodically for public education.

           8.1.3      Establish countywide programs to identify archaeological and historic
                      resources, protect them and educate the public about the history of the
                      region.

           8.1.4      Establish criteria for the identiﬁcation of archaeological and historical
                      resources and establish a process for resolving conﬂicts between
                      preservation of these resources and development activities.




C OMMUNITY F RAMEWORK P LAN                                                                       26
                                     CLARK2045
9          E C O N O M IC D E V EL O P M E N T
Although an Economic Development Element is not required in the Comprehensive Growth
Management Plan, Clark County will include this element in order to ensure that there is a balance
of economic and population growth in the county and that the type of economic development
which occurs contributes to maintaining and improving the overall quality of life in the county.

9.1        Framework Plan Policies

           9.1.0      Encourage a balance of job and housing opportunities in each urban center.
                      Provide sufﬁcient land for business as well as homes. Businesses within the
                      community should provide a range of job types for the community's
                      residents.

           9.1.1      Encourage industrial uses in major urban centers, small towns and
                      community centers.

           9.1.2      Revise commercial and industrial development standards to allow for
                      mixed use developments and ensure compatibility with nearby residential
                      and public land uses.

           9.1.3      Encourage businesses which pay a family wage to locate in Clark County.

           9.1.4      Encourage appropriate commercial development in neighborhoods and
                      rural centers that support the surrounding community.

           9.1.5      Develop transit-friendly design standards for commercial and industrial
                      areas. Encourage businesses to take responsibility for travel demand
                      management for their employees.

           9.1.6      Establish incentives for the long-term holding of prime industrial land.
                      Encourage local jurisdictions and special districts to hold prime industrial
                      land for future development.


10         COMMUNITY DESIGN
Implementation of the Community Framework Plan will require attention to the details of design if
it is to succeed in encouraging a sense of community and getting people to use alternative means
of transportation. The following policies are intended to focus the design policies of each
jurisdiction on certain key issues which must be coordinated in order to be effective.

10.1       Framework Plan Policies

           10.1.0     Develop high quality design and site planning standards for publicly funded
                      projects (e.g., civic buildings, parks, etc.).


27                                                              COMMUNITY F RAMEWORK P LAN
                                      CLARK2045
           10.1.1      Encourage the establishment of open space between or around urban
                       centers. These areas could be public greenways, resource lands, wildlife
                       habitats, etc.

           10.1.2      Encourage urban and rural centers to provide an ample supply of
                       specialized open space in the form of squares, greens and parks whose
                       frequent use is encouraged through placement and design.

           10.1.3      Establish development standards to encourage mixed use developments in
                       urban and rural centers, while providing buffering for each use from the
                       adverse effects of the other.

           10.1.4      Establish development standards for higher densities and intensities of
                       development along priority and high capacity transit corridors that
                       encourage pedestrian, bicycle and public transit usage.

           10.1.5      Encourage street, pedestrian path and bike path standards that contribute
                       to a system of fully-connected and interesting routes to all destinations.
                       Their design should encourage pedestrian and bicycle use and be deﬁned by
                       buildings, trees and lighting and discouraging high speed trafﬁc.

           10.1.6      Establish standards that use materials and methods of construction speciﬁc
                       to the region, exhibiting continuity of history and culture and compatibility
                       with the climate, to encourage the development of local character and
                       community identity.

           10.1.7      Establish new development standards and retroﬁt existing developments to
                       minimize environmental conﬂicts and support salmon recovery.


11         A N N E X AT I O N & I N C O R P O R A T I O N
The goal of the Growth Management Act is that urban development generally occurs within cities
or areas that will eventually be cities -- either through annexation or incorporation. Currently in
Clark County, large unincorporated areas are developed at urban densities, primarily in the
Vancouver Urban Growth Area. The transition of these areas to cities is a process that will require
the cooperation of staff and elected ofﬁcials from the county, cities and towns and special districts.




C OMMUNITY F RAMEWORK P LAN                                                                        28
CHAPTER
LAND USE ELEMENT
                   1
                                      CLARK2045

CHAPTER 1
Land Use Element

INTRODUCTION
The Land Use Element of the Clark County Comprehensive Growth Management Plan 2025-2045
(20-Year Plan) provides policy guidance for the uses of land throughout Clark County, which range
from residential, commercial and industrial structures to farm and forestry activities to parks,
open spaces and green spaces, urban and community forests within the urban growth area, and
undeveloped environmentally sensitive areas. It contains policies to provide guidance as to how
and where these uses should be located and what type of overall land use pattern should evolve as
Clark County develops over the next 20 years.

In addition to the written descriptions of existing conditions and the policies, the land use element
is closely associated with the 20-Year comprehensive plan map. The map delineates the
unincorporated area in various categories, or plan designations, which appear on the map as
different colors. Speciﬁc policies are applied to speciﬁc map designations, providing policy
direction for the development of those areas.

This element includes a review of existing conditions and analyses of how Clark County will meet
future needs related to land uses. One critical concern that it addresses is whether the map and
policies designate adequate amounts of land to meet the residential, commercial, industrial,
environmental and other needs of Clark County through the next 20 years. A second equally
important concern is the integration of land uses. The various types of uses should be located and
developed in an integrated, cohesive manner which minimizes transportation and other public and
private service needs and costs and fosters greater accessibility, livability and community in Clark
County.

The Growth Management Act of 1990 (GMA) clearly emphasizes the reduction of urban sprawl.
The Land Use Element promotes more compact development patterns which allow for more
efﬁcient delivery of services and promotes a better balance of jobs and housing to minimize the
distance people need to travel between home, workplace and shopping.

The Land Use Element contains provisions for a clear distinction between urban and rural areas
through the designation of urban growth boundaries, as required by the GMA. Within urban areas,
urban style and density development should occur. Within the rural area, rural style and density
development are planned.

Within the urban areas, a range of urban densities and development opportunities are envisioned
to accommodate housing and services for households of all income levels. Although single family
housing and middle housing will continue to be the most common forms of residential


L AND U SE E LEMENT                                                                               30
                                      CLARK2045
development, certain areas within major activity centers and along transportation corridors are
planned for increased multi-family and mixed use development, as well as more intensive
commercial uses. Protection of environmentally critical lands and an expansive recreational and
open space network development are planned in both the urban and rural areas.

The Land Use Element also contains provisions for advancing environmental justice and climate
change and resilience action. GMA requires that Land Use Elements give special consideration to
achieving environmental justice in its goals and policies, including efforts to avoid creating or
worsening environmental health disparities. The Land Use Element should promote physical
activity and reduce per capita vehicle miles traveled within the jurisdiction, but without increasing
greenhouse gas emissions elsewhere in the state. The Land Use Element must reduce and mitigate
the risk to lives and property posed by wildﬁres.


R E L A T I O N T O O T H E R E L E M EN T S O F T H E P L A N
The land use element addresses land development throughout the entire unincorporated area.
However, because of its unique conditions and policy issues, analysis and policies for the
unincorporated rural area of Clark County are contained in a separate Rural and Natural Resource
Lands Element, Chapter 3 and Environmental Element, Chapter 4 of this document.

The Land Use Element is the central element of the comprehensive plan. The other elements must
be fully consistent with the land use development patterns and policies presented in the Land Use
Element and comprehensive plan map. For example, the Transportation and Capital Facilities
Elements must contain adequate provisions to serve the type and extent of the land use patterns
envisioned in the Land Use Element. Conversely, the Land Use Element and map must not specify a
land use development pattern which cannot be adequately served by transportation and other
services speciﬁed in the other elements.

Chapter 14 – Climate Element contains most climate change and resilience policies in the
Comprehensive Plan related to the GMA climate change and resiliency requirements, but other
elements also include climate policies. Climate-related goals and policies within this element are
noted in the goals and policies section of this chapter. See Chapter 14 for a comprehensive
discussion of climate policies, some of which overlap with land use.


R E L A T I O N T O O T H E R C O U N T Y P L AN N I N G P O L IC Y DO C U M E N T S
The Clark County 20-Year Comprehensive Plan, including the land use element, is part of a
hierarchy including GMA, the Clark County countywide planning policies, the Community
Framework Plan and the Clark County zoning ordinance and related implementation measures. The
GMA contains general and speciﬁc requirements for participating jurisdictions. Clark County’s
Community Framework Plan provides an overall community vision and general policies for future
development in accordance with the GMA. Clark County’s 20-Year Comprehensive Plan and Land




31                                                                             L AND U SE E LEMENT
                                     CLARK2045
Use Element within, provides detailed policies for managing growth consistent with the mandates
of GMA and the direction of the Community Framework Plan.

The 20-Year plan and its Land Use Element do not provide all the details, however. Precise
standards, such as building setbacks, permitted uses within a particular zoning district or
appropriate types of stormwater management systems are included in the implementing
ordinances, including the zoning regulations. The 20-Year plan is the controlling document and
where the implementing ordinances conﬂict with the 20-Year plan or fail to implement its policies,
the implementing ordinances shall be amended to be consistent with the 20-Year plan.


R E L A T I O N T O C I T Y C O M P R E H E N S IV E P L AN S
The land use element and other 20-year plan elements will be the governing documents for all
unincorporated lands under the jurisdiction of Clark County. City comprehensive plans and their
associated ordinances will be the governing documents applicable within incorporated city limits.
Unincorporated lands within adopted urban growth areas will be subject to county plans and
ordinances, although cities will be consulted and city policies may be considered.
Interjurisdictional provisions are included in the Procedures Element, Chapter 15 of this
document.

LAND USE CONDITIONS

G E N E R A L H I S T OR Y
Clark County was originally settled by Native Americans, who established villages along the
Columbia River and in other sites before recorded history. European settlement dates back to the
establishment of Fort Vancouver in the early 19th century. Subsequent development of Clark
County was primarily agriculturally based, but small residential concentrations within compact
grid networks emerged in the Vancouver, Camas and Washougal areas and later in Battle Ground,
La Center and Ridgeﬁeld.

Later expansions in development patterns were brought about largely by transportation
improvements. With the arrival of the streetcar, radial development along track lines followed,
such as along Fourth Plain Boulevard from downtown Vancouver to Orchards. Increased
automobile use beginning in the 1920s extended the reach of development further from the
original downtown nodes into areas previously used for agriculture. This process continued with
the inﬂux of population during World War II, the post-war construction of Highway 99 and later
Interstate 5 and 205.

Increasingly dispersed development patterns have occurred over the past 20 years in Clark
County. The pace and timing of growth has occurred in cycles, driven largely by regional and
national trends. From 2010 through 2020, county population grew from 425,363 to 503,311.
During this period, Clark County grew by 77,948 residents or by 18.33 percent. On April 1, 2025,


L AND U SE E LEMENT                                                                            32
                                      CLARK2045
the state Ofﬁce of Financial Management ranked Clark County as the ﬁfth largest county in the
state with a population of 542,400.


C U R R EN T G E N E R A L D I S T R IB U T I O N O F L AN D U S E S & P O P U L A T I O N
The total land area within Clark County’s boundary is approximately 420,238 acres, including
areas covered by water, unincorporated and incorporated land, and Cowlitz Indian Tribe trust
lands. The overall existing distribution of various land uses within Clark County is illustrated in
Table 1.1. This Table illustrates how the areas are designated by the comprehensive plan or zoning
maps.




33                                                                            L AND U SE E LEMENT
                                                     CLARK2045
        Table 1.1 2015 Generalized Land Uses – Plan Map (Values in Acres) 1
Jurisdiction   Agriculture   Agriculture/   Comm-    Forest    Industrial   Mixed   Parks    Public       Residential    Residential
                             Wildlife       ercial                          Use     Open     Facilities   High           Low
                                                                                    Space                 Density        Density
Clark           34,639         2,406         261     158,094     267                8,232     1,006                          103,817
County
Battle                                       998                 822                                        1,036             4,076
Ground
UGA
Camas                                       2,335                857          306   1,611                    564              4,513
UGA
La Center                                    22                   40          267    123       103           199              1,082
UGA 2
Ridgeﬁeld                                    355                1,576         296    242       191           453              3,136
UGA
Vancouver                      1,091        1,953               7,877       4,748   3,464     1,204         7,087            28,129
UGA
Washougal                                    281                 365          251    180       392           117              3,233
UGA
Woodland                                                                                                                      111
UGA
Yacolt                                       40                   34                  28        73                            286
UGA
     Total 3    34,639         3,497        6,245    158,094   11,838       5,868   13,880    2,969         9,456            148,383



        Table 1.2 presents 2023 base population and projected increases in Clark County and its cities. It
        should be noted that city limits listed have not remained static over time and will not do so in the
        future. Growth within urban growth areas reﬂects an expansion of city limits as well as births,
        deaths and net migration.

        The projected 2045 populations for each city reﬂect an assumption that city limits will grow
        through annexation to ﬁll the adopted urban growth areas (UGA). Similarly, the apparent decline
        in the unincorporated rural and urban areas is due to a loss of land area through annexation and
        not out-migration or other loss of population.

        Much of the policy thrust of the Clark County 20-Year plan is in response to the need to plan for
        the anticipated population growth for the 20-year period ending in 2045 based on a projected


        1
          Source: Clark County GIS
        2
          La Center UGA numbers do not include 53 acres of Cowlitz Indian Tribe trust lands that overlap with the
        UGA
        3
          The total numbers do not include 285 acres of Cowlitz Indian Tribe trust lands; 16,193 acres of bodies of
        water; 300 acres of airport; and 8,590 acres of right of way.




        L AND U SE E LEMENT                                                                                             34
                                          CLARK2045
population of 718,154 (95% to the urban area and 5% to the rural area). Under the GMA, Clark
County and its cities are required to plan for a total population projection as provided by the state
Ofﬁce of Financial Management (OFM). The OFM has estimated a population projection for 2045
ranging from a low of 576,151 to a high of 791,809. The middle series projection, the one
considered most likely by OFM, is 698,416. Although the county can exercise discretion over how
the projected total is distributed among the urban growth areas and the unincorporated rural
area, the comprehensive growth plans of Clark County and its cities must be consistent with the
ofﬁcial total allocation.

The 2045 population projections listed in Table 1.2 are actual goals, not merely future estimates or
guidelines, which must be reﬂected in the respective 20-year plans of the jurisdictions.

Table 1.2 2045 Population Estimates by Jurisdiction 4
            UGA                2023           2025-2045          2045
                             Population        Change          Population
    Rural                          69,284            9,538          78,822
    Battle Ground UGA              24,444           12,773          37,217
    Camas UGA                      29,532            7,728          37,080
    La Center UGA                   4,462            3,884           8,346
    Ridgeﬁeld UGA                  16,574           10,656          27,230
    Vancouver UGA                 363,352          138,865         502,217
    Washougal UGA                  18,026            6,848          24,874
    Woodland                          145              185             330
    Yacolt UGA                      1,762              277           2,039
    Total County                  527,400          190,754         718,154


Approximately 95 percent of population growth over the 20-year planning horizon is expected to
occur in designated urban growth areas, with 5 percent of the remainder to occur in
unincorporated rural and natural resource lands. This type of development pattern is consistent
with the goals of the GMA and supports the implementation of the long range vision of the county
reﬂected in the Community Framework Plan. To accommodate the population growth over the 20-
year planning horizon the following UGAs new total acreage in Table 1.3 is expected to expand to
Battle Ground 196, Camas 82, La Center 46, Ridgeﬁeld 239, and Yacolt 12, acres.

Table 1.3 Total Acreage Added by UGA 5
     UGA Name       Commercial      Industrial     Mixed Use        Public          Residential   Grand Total
                                                                   Facilities
    Battle Ground           113             335              -75                0         -177           196


4
  Sources: Clark County GIS. 2023 population based on OFM April 1, 2023 population estimate. 2023
population is based on incorporation of UGA area. The projected 2045 population is based on the Clark
County Council selected population and allocation.
5 Source: Clark County GIS




35                                                                                      L AND U SE E LEMENT
                                       CLARK2045
  UGA Name       Commercial      Industrial   Mixed Use       Public      Residential   Grand Total
                                                             Facilities
    Camas                   0             0           82              0             0           82
   La Center                0            40            6              0             0           46
   Ridgeﬁeld                0             0          225             14             0          239
     Yacolt                 0            12            0              0             0           12
  Grand Total            113            387          238             14          -177          575


R E S I D E N T I A L L AN D U S E S
Residential lands provide the base for the provision of housing of Clark County residents. For the
purposes of assessing overall land use, perhaps the most signiﬁcant policy issues related to
residential uses are the sufﬁciency, affordability and location of the overall housing stock. These
factors are heavily driven by market and demographic factors which are largely beyond local
control, such as interest rates or immigration to the Portland-Vancouver region. However, Clark
County is working with all the cities in the county to provide an appropriate land base and policy
guidance through the comprehensive planning process to inﬂuence these factors in a positive
direction.

The 2025 Comprehensive Plan Map for the county and its cities contains an adequate amount of
land designated for urban residential use, which is sufﬁcient to accommodate the projected
population increase of 190,754 persons allocated to Clark County urban areas. The methodology
used to determine the amount of land needed to accommodate the projected population increases
is based on the policy directives of the Board of County Councilors. A more complete analysis of
residential development issues is contained in the Housing Element, Chapter 2 of this document.


C O M M E R C I AL & I N D U S T R I A L L A N D U S E S
Urban commercial and industrial designations are designated within the Urban Growth Areas on
the Land Use Map. These include Commercial (C), Industrial (I) and Heavy Industrial (IH), as
described below. Commercial lands are envisioned to accommodate future employment growth,
along with industrial and business lands. The Economic Development Element, Chapter 9 provides
further policy direction regarding types of employment uses and attraction of businesses to the
county. For designations, goals and policies guiding commercial development in the rural area see
the Rural and Natural Resource Element, Chapter 3.


PARKS
Clark County has been involved in land acquisition for parks since the 1930s and adopted its ﬁrst
Comprehensive Parks and Recreation Plan in 1965. From 1997 to 2013, the county park system
was jointly planned and managed with the City of Vancouver via an interlocal agreement or
memorandum of understanding (MOU). In 2014, the agreement was not renewed. The Clark
County Parks Division was created in 2014 under the Department of Public Works and the


L AND U SE E LEMENT                                                                              36
                                      CLARK2045
associated Clark County Parks Advisory Board (PAB) was also established in 2014. In 2022 the
most recent Clark County Parks, Recreation and Open Space (PROS) Plan was adopted by the
Board of County Councilors. The plan provides direction for the future priorities of the parks
system over the next six years and includes a 10-year needs analysis, qualiﬁes the county for
eligibility for state and federal grant resources, fulﬁlls the requirements for a parks element within
the comprehensive plan as part of the State of Washington Growth Management Act (GMA) and
reﬂects the guidance from the Greater Clark Parks Advisory Board related to recreational needs
and priorities of the community. The Parks, Recreation and Open Space Element, Chapter 7,
provides further background and information on these facilities in Clark County.


L A N D U S E I N T E GR A T I O N
For a community to function in a livable and efﬁcient manner, land uses must not only be provided
in sufﬁcient overall quantities, but must also be developed in an integrated, cohesive fashion. The
20-Year Plan encourages improved land use integration on a range of levels, from more efﬁcient
overall regional form to better site-speciﬁc land use integration and access. Developing in an
integrated fashion to include but not limited to working closely with school districts to ensure that
new school facilities are within close proximity to neighborhoods they are intended to serve.


U R B AN G R O W T H A R E A S
Perhaps the most fundamental policy component of the 20-Year Plan is the establishment of urban
growth boundaries, as required by the GMA. Within urban growth boundaries, development of
urban uses and densities should occur and urban level-of-services should be available, or capable
of being provided in the future. Within the rural area beyond the urban growth boundaries, only
rural uses and densities should occur and only rural level-of-services should be provided.

The establishment of urban growth boundaries is intended to reduce service inefﬁciencies
associated with sprawling and dispersed development patterns and to produce a generally more
compact overall urban development pattern which can be served more efﬁciently. Urban growth
boundaries also facilitate more efﬁcient timing of growth, as available land supplies within the
urban areas are generally utilized before the boundary is extended into the adjacent rural area to
allow for more intensive development in that area. In the absence of established boundaries, a
leap frog development pattern may occur when urbanization takes place in isolated outlying
pockets before it occurs in areas closer to the cities.

Urban growth boundaries also serve the purpose of fostering distinctions between the urban and
rural areas which often become blurred or lost in the face of unmanaged growth. Those who
choose to live in rural or urban areas often do so because of the relatively unique set of
characteristics that each offers. By reinforcing and protecting the distinction between urban and
rural areas, growth boundaries can help to conserve for the future many of these characteristics
which have been steadily eroded in Clark County in recent years, particularly in the rural
communities closer to the urban areas.


37                                                                             L AND U SE E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
F O C U S E D P U B L IC I N V E S T M E N T A R E A S
Although development will occur throughout the urban areas, the 20-Year Plan encourages more
focused capital improvements for a variety of services in speciﬁc areas in order to provide “fully
served” land where all public facilities meet or exceed standards. Clark County has identiﬁed
potential investment areas and developed conceptual plans and cost estimates for making these
areas ready to build. Encouraging development in the focused public investment areas will allow
mixed use, industrial and professional business activities to locate where they can be served most
easily and efﬁciently by public services, particularly transportation. These centers and nodes have
better automobile and transit accessibility than most other urban areas. Encouraging commercial
activities in close proximity to higher density housing will provide important opportunities to
more closely match jobs, housing and shopping, minimizing trafﬁc impacts by reducing the number
and length of automobile trips needed.

Providing a range of development densities in the urban area is intended to foster a variety of
options for people or companies wishing to live or do business in the county. Opportunities will be
provided in residential areas characterized by larger homes and ample yard space, as well as those
who wish to live in a more urbanized setting of smaller homes within walking distance or close
proximity of a full range of shops or other activities. More detailed information can be found in the
Economic Development Action Plan in Appendix D.


SUB-AREA PLANS
Sub-area planning provides the community with a greater opportunity to be involved in a planning
process that is more identiﬁable and predictable. Neighborhoods, corridors and special districts
may be deﬁned and plans will be tailored to address the issues of that area. Upon adoption by the
Board of County Councilors they amend and become part of the comprehensive plan.

Many planning efforts have been undertaken within the Vancouver Urban Growth Area in
collaboration with area residents, business owners and other stakeholders. Sub-area plans work to
create a vision for a community as it grows and develops.

HIGHWAY 99
The Highway 99 sub-area is located in an urbanized area of unincorporated Clark County between
Vancouver and Ridgeﬁeld. The planning area includes approximately 2,400 acres and extends
from the Chelatchie Prairie Railroad Bridge near NE 63rd Street (south), Interstate 5 (west), NE
134th Street (north) and the Bonneville Power Administration Transmission Line Right-of-Way
(east).

The area has a mix of housing, businesses and undeveloped property, but it is regionally known for
US Highway 99. This key corridor, next to Interstate 5, serves as a business district for the Hazel
Dell, Salmon Creek and Felida unincorporated areas.




L AND U SE E LEMENT                                                                               38
                                     CLARK2045
The Highway 99 Sub-area Plan and accompanying form-based code provides a vision for the
redevelopment and revitalization of the Highway 99 corridor.

MILL CREEK
The Mill Creek sub-area is bounded by NE 179th Street on the north, NE 50th Avenue on the east,
the WSU campus on the south and NE 29th Avenue on the west. The plan includes zoning and
trafﬁc circulation for the area and recommendations on public open space, trails, lot size
compatibility and design standards for future roads.


C O M M U N I T YW I DE P L AN S
Something as simple as a sidewalk can improve your health and the health of your neighbors by
encouraging walking for recreation or travel. Research shows that there are key features of
communities that inﬂuence health, such as parks, safe streets, public gathering places and easy
access to healthy food.

Other plans have been developed by and with the community to assure we are developing and
sustaining healthy and age-friendly communities. Such plans include the Growing Healthier
Report, the Aging Readiness Plan, the Clark County Bicycle and Pedestrian Plan, and the Housing
Options Study and Action Plan. The Community Design Element, Chapter 11 includes policies
related to the Growing Healthier Report and Aging Readiness Plan. The Transportation Element,
Chapter 5 includes policies related to the Clark County Bicycle and Pedestrian Plan. The Housing
Element, Chapter 2, includes policies related to the Housing Options Study and Action Plan.

The 20-Year Plan encourages better land use integration through increased accessibility and
interrelation of nearby uses. Development patterns or uses which allow for and encourage
pedestrian access are encouraged, while development which is of a strip commercial nature or
otherwise exclusively oriented to automobile trafﬁc is not.

GROWING HEALTHIER REPORT
Clark County Public Health examined the ways that our neighborhoods and our built environment
impacts our health. Working with the community, they identiﬁed speciﬁc policies and strategies
for improving the long-term health of our community through the development of the Growing
Healthier Report.

AGING READINESS PLAN
The Aging Readiness Task Force developed a plan that identiﬁes strategies focusing on healthy
communities, housing, transportation and mobility, supportive services and community
engagement. The Aging Readiness Plan assesses the county's readiness to serve as a home for a
growing number of older residents. The plan includes strategies to improve the community’s
capacity to support its growing older population and ultimately beneﬁt all ages. The Commission




39                                                                           L AND U SE E LEMENT
                                         CLARK2045
on Aging was established in 2012 to lead and manage the implementation of the plan. The
Commission on Aging guided an update to the Aging Readiness Plan in 2023.

CLARK COUNTY BICYCLE AND PEDESTRIAN PLAN
Clark County has developed a Bicycle and Pedestrian Plan to make it safer and more convenient for
people to get to major destinations on foot or by bicycle. The plan identiﬁes ways to improve the
transportation network by integrating existing sidewalks, bike lanes and trails.

HOUSING OPTIONS STUDY AND ACTION PLAN
The Clark County Housing Options Study and Action Plan (HOSAP) identiﬁes housing challenges and
opportunities to encourage development of housing that is affordable to a variety of household
incomes through removal of regulatory barriers and implementation of other strategies. These
strategies are needed to help ensure future generations have access to affordable, quality and
diverse housing opportunities.

INTERPRETATION OF THE 20-YEAR PLAN MAP
The 20-Year Plan Map identiﬁes a number of different designations which are described below.
The plan designations are consistent with the location criteria described. Future amendments to
the 20-Year Plan map must be made in a manner consistent with these general descriptions (Tables
1.4, 1.5 and 1.6).

    Comprehensive Plan Map: Establishes land use designations for all land in Clark County. It
    shows the long-term vision of how and where the county will change over the next 20 years to
    accommodate expected population growth.

    Zoning Map: Shows how land can be used and what can be built on any given property today.
    Zones are more speciﬁc than comprehensive plan designations and come with a set of rules
    described in the county’s Uniﬁed Development Code Title 40.

Table 1.4 Rural Lands Plan Designation to Zone Consistency Chart
 Comprehensive Plan                         Zoning
 Rural 5 (R-5)                              Rural (R-5)

 Rural 10 (R-10)                            Rural (R-10)
 Rural 20 (R-20)                            Rural (R-20)
 Rural Center (RC)                          Rural Center (RC-1), Rural Center
                                            (RC-2.5), Rural (R-5)
 Rural Commercial (CR)                      Rural Commercial (CR-1), Rural
                                            Commercial (CR-2)
 Rural Industrial (RI)                      Heavy Industrial (IH), Airport (A)
 Public Facility (PF)                       Public Facility (PF), Airport (A)




L AND U SE E LEMENT                                                                            40
                                         CLARK2045
Table 1.5 Resource Lands Plan Designation to Zone Consistency Chart
 Comprehensive Plan                         Zoning
 Agriculture (AG)                           Agriculture (AG-20)
 Agri-Wildlife (AG/WL), Parks/Open          Agri-Wildlife (AG/WL)
 Space (P/OS)
 Forest Tier II                             Forest (FR-40)
 Forest Tier I                              Forest (FR-80)
 Airport (A)                                Airport (A)

Table 1.6 Urban Plan Designations to Zone Consistency Chart
 Comprehensive Plan                            Zoning
 Urban Low Density Residential (UL)            Residential (R1-5), Residential (R1-6),
                                               Residential (R1-7.5), Residential (R1-
                                               10), Residential (R1-20)
 Urban Medium Density Residential (UM)         Residential (R-24), Residential (R-36),
                                               Ofﬁce Residential (OR-24), Ofﬁce
                                               Residential (OR-36)
 Urban High Density Residential (UH)           Residential (R-50), Ofﬁce Residential
                                               (OR-50)
 Mixed Use (MU)                                Mixed Use (MX)
 Commercial (C)                                Neighborhood Commercial (NC),
                                               Community Commercial (CC), General
                                               Commercial (GC)
 Industrial (I)                                Business Park (BP), Light Industrial
                                               (IL), Airport (A)
 Heavy Industrial (IH)                         Heavy Industrial (IH), Railroad
                                               Industrial (IR), Airport (A)
 Public Facility (PF)                          Public Facility (PF), University (U),
                                               Airport (A)
 Airport (A)                                   Airport (A), Heavy Industrial (IH)
 Parks/Open Space (P/OS)                       Parks/Open Space (P/OS),
                                               Parks/Wildlife Refuge (P/WL)
 Bonneville Power Administration (BPA)         All zones



The Plan to Zone matrix is provided to identify those implementing base zoning districts which are
consistent with each plan designation. Those districts which are not included within a given plan
designation are inconsistent with the plan map and are not permitted within that designation. This
information is necessary to determine when, where and under what circumstances these
designations should be applied in the future.




41                                                                                   L AND U SE E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
20-YEAR PLAN DESIGNATIONS & LOCATION
CRITERIA
The policies in this chapter and those in the referenced planning studies strive to improve the
quality of life, provide opportunities for innovative approaches to land use and protect our
community character. The policies work in tandem with the Comprehensive Plan map, which
illustrates the location of various land use categories. The Comprehensive Plan map delineates the
unincorporated area in various categories, or plan designations, which appear on the map as
different colors.


U R B AN D E S I G N AT I O N S

RESIDENTIAL LANDS
There are three separate categories for residential use, ranging from low to high density. Low
density residential is predominantly for single-family and middle housing residential development.
Medium and high density residential provide land for single-family attached housing, garden
apartment and multi-family developments. Public facilities, churches, institutions and other
special uses may be allowed in these designations if certain conditions are met. Where ofﬁces are
determined to be appropriate, ofﬁce residential zones can be applied in the medium and high
density designations.

Urban Low Density Residential (UL)
   This designation provides land for single-family and middle housing residential development.
   Minimum densities will ensure that new development will occur in a manner which maximizes
   the efﬁciency of public services. New development shall provide for connection to public
   sewer and water. In addition, public facilities, churches, institutions and other special uses may
   be allowed in this designation if certain conditions are met. The base zones which implement
   this 20-Year Plan designation are the R1-20, R1-10, R1-7.5, R1-6 and R1-5 zones. The zones
   may be applied in a manner that provides for densities slightly higher than existing urban
   development, but the density increase should continue to protect the character of the existing
   area.

Urban Medium De nsity Residen tial (UM)
   This designation provides land for single family attached housing, garden apartment and multi-
   family developments. Minimum densities ensure that areas build out to the density planned,
   ensuring that the urban areas accommodate anticipated residential needs. Areas planned for
   urban medium residential use and assisted living facilities shall be located near commercial
   uses and transportation facilities in order to efﬁciently provide these services. Public facilities
   and institutions are allowed under certain conditions. The implementing base zones in this
   designation are the R-24 and R-36 zones. Where ofﬁces are determined to be appropriate, the
   Ofﬁce Residential OR-24 and OR-36 zones can be applied in this designation.


L AND U SE E LEMENT                                                                                42
                                        CLARK2045
Urban High Density Residential (UH)
     Outside of the Highway 99 Overlay Area, these areas provide for the highest density housing
     in the urban area with 50 units per gross acre. Minimum densities ensure that these areas
     build out to the density planned, ensuring that the urban areas accommodate anticipated
     residential needs including assisted living facilities. Areas with this designation shall be located
     in transit corridors and near commercial and employment centers to provide demand for
     commercial and transportation services while providing easy access to employment.
     Institutions and public facilities are allowed in this zone under certain conditions. The
     implementing zone in this designation is the R-50. Where ofﬁces are determined to be
     appropriate, the Ofﬁce Residential OR-50 zone can be applied in this designation.

COMMERCIAL (C)
The Commercial (C) designation is intended to provide for a wide range of mixed-residential,
retail, service, and institutional uses where appropriate infrastructure and services are available.
The following three distinct urban commercial use categories include:

Neighborhood Commercial (NC)
     These commercial center areas provide services within walking distance for the frequent
     needs of the surrounding residents and are implemented by the Neighborhood Commercial
     base zone. These areas are located in the urban growth boundary and will generally be small
     areas which are generally designed to serve neighborhoods. Developments in these areas will
     be designed to be compatible with the surrounding residentially zoned neighborhoods.

     New neighborhood commercial areas should generally be less than ﬁve acres in size spaced
     less than ﬁve miles from similar uses or zones, serve a population of up to 10,000, locate at
     neighborhood collector or larger crossroads and serve a primary trade area within a 1.5 mile
     radius.

Community Commercial (CC)
     A commercial center area provides services to several neighborhoods in urban areas of Clark
     County and is implemented with the Community Commercial zone. New community
     commercial areas should generally be between ﬁve and 20 acres in size, spaced two to four
     miles from similar uses or zones, serve a population of 10,000 to 20,000, locate at minor or
     major arterial crossroads and serve a primary trade area between 2 to 4 miles.

General Commerci al (GC)
     General Commercial areas provide a full range of goods and services necessary to serve large
     areas of the county and traveling public. This designation is implemented with the General
     Commercial base zone. These areas are generally located at interchanges, along state
     highways and interstates and adjacent to major and minor arterial roadways. New general
     commercial areas should generally be more than 20 acres in size, spaced more than four miles



43                                                                                L AND U SE E LEMENT
                                     CLARK2045
   from similar uses or zones, serve a population of more than 20,000 and serve a primary trade
   area between 3 to 6 miles.

MIXED USE (MU)
The Mixed Use designation intends to allow mixed use developments to provide the community
with a mix of mutually supporting retail, service, ofﬁce and residential uses. Areas within this
designation are implemented with the list of uses allowed in the Mixed Use (MX) zone and are
intended to achieve the following goals and objectives of the Community Framework Plan and the
comprehensive plan:

   •   Enhance livability, environmental quality and economic vitality;
   •   Accommodate and respect surrounding land uses by providing a gradual transition into
       lower density neighborhoods that may encircle a potential mixed-use site;
   •   Maximize efﬁcient use of public facilities and services; provide a variety of housing types
       and densities;
   •   Reduce the number of automobile trips and encourage alternative modes of
       transportation;
   •   And create a safe, attractive and convenient environment for living, working, recreating
       and traveling; and,
   •   Shall be accomplished through design requirements governing such elements as scale,
       bulk, street orientation, landscaping and parking as contained in the Mixed Use Design
       Standards.

INDUSTRIAL (I)
Areas within this designation are implemented with Light Industrial (IL) and Business Park (BP)
base zones and are intended to provide the community with employment opportunities such as
compatible ofﬁce and attractive new non-polluting industries. Areas designated Industrial also
provides for more intensive job related land uses that pay family wages, such as professional
ofﬁces, research and technology related industries.

   •   Light Industrial (IL) base zones are intended to provide for light manufacturing,
       warehousing, transportation and other land intensive uses. Services and uses which
       support industrial uses are allowed in these areas but limited in size and location to serve
       workers within the industrial area.
   •   The Business Park (BP) base zone provides for uses permitted in the business park and is
       intended to provide for campus like development with higher job densities and family wage
       jobs than in traditional industrial areas.
   •   Airport (A) base zone provides land uses for airports that allow public use.




L AND U SE E LEMENT                                                                               44
                                       CLARK2045
HEAVY INDUSTRIAL (IH)
This designation is implemented with heavy industrial (IH) and Industrial Railroad (IR) base zones
and provides land for heavy manufacturing, warehousing and industrial uses that may be
incompatible with other categories of land uses.

     •   The Heavy Industrial (IH) base zone provides land for heavy manufacturing, warehousing
         and industrial uses that may be incompatible with other categories of land uses. This
         designation is appropriate for areas which have extensive rail and shipping facilities.
     •   The Industrial Railroad (IR) base zone provides land uses that require and take advantage
         of rail access. This designation is appropriate for industrial and manufacturing uses
         including manufacturing, assembly, fabrication, processing and bulk handling and storage
         (warehousing).

PUBLIC FACILITY (PF)
This designation is applied to land uses that have already constructed facilities or are for public
use. Government buildings, water towers, sewer treatment plants and other publicly owned uses
are included in this designation. The implementing base zone is Public Facility (PF), University (U)
and Airport (A).

AIRPORT (A)
This designation is applied to airports that allow public use. It is implemented with the Airport (A)
and Heavy Industrial (IH) base zones.

PARKS/OPEN SPACE (P/OS)
These areas provide visual and psychological relief from man-made development in the urban
area. Open space also provides opportunities for recreational activity and environmental
preservation, maintenance and enhancement. Open space may include, but is not limited to
developed parks, trails and greenways, special areas, public and private recreational facilities,
critical lands and public gathering spaces. It is implemented with a Public/Open Space (P/OS) and
Parks/Wildlife Refuge (P/WL) base zones.

BONNEVILLE POWER ADMINISTRATION (BPA)
These areas are owned by the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) where they operate their
transmission facilities.


RURAL LANDS
The Rural (R-5, R-10, R-20) designations are intended to provide lands for residential living in the
rural area. Natural resource activities such as farming and forestry are allowed and encouraged to
occur as small scale activities in conjunction with the residential uses in the area. These areas are
subject to normal and accepted forestry and farming practices. The Rural 5, 10 and 20



45                                                                              L AND U SE E LEMENT
                                       CLARK2045
comprehensive plan designations are implemented with corresponding Rural 5, 10 and 20 base
zones. A Rural 10 designation is applied within the rural area to prevent premature subdivision of
future urban areas where the lands are adjacent to designated Urban Reserves, where the
predominant size is equal or greater than 10 acres, to act as a buffer to Natural Resource lands or
to protect environmentally critical areas consistent with applicable county ordinance and related
regulations. This allows for efﬁcient urban development when land is added to the urban growth
areas. A Rural 20 designation applies to rural areas where the lands act as a buffer to Natural
Resource designated lands, are used for small scale forest or farm production or contain
signiﬁcant environmentally constrained areas as deﬁned by applicable county code and related
regulations.

RURAL CENTER (RC)
The rural center residential zones are to provide lands for residential living in the Rural Centers at
densities consistent with the comprehensive plan. These districts are only permitted in the
designated Rural Centers and are implemented with the RC-1 and RC-2.5 base zones.

RURAL COMMERCIAL (CR)
This commercial district is located in rural areas outside of urban growth boundaries in existing
commercial areas and within designated Rural Centers. These areas are generally located at
convenient locations at minor or major arterial crossroads and sized to accommodate the rural
population. Rural commercial areas are not intended to serve the general traveling public in rural
areas located between urban population centers. Rural commercial areas within designated Rural
Centers are implemented with the CR-2 base zone. Existing commercial areas outside of these
Rural Centers are implemented with the CR-1 base zone. All new rural commercial applications
shall address the criteria for new commercial areas through a market and land use analysis.

RURAL INDUSTRIAL (RI)
This industrial designation is to provide for industrial uses in the rural area that are primarily
dependent on the natural resources derived from the rural area. The Heavy Industrial base zone
implements this designation.

"Major industrial development" means a master planned location suitable for manufacturing or
industrial businesses that: (i) Requires a parcel of land so large that no suitable parcels are
available within an urban growth area; (ii) is a natural resource-based industry requiring a location
near agricultural land, forest land, or mineral resource land upon which it is dependent; or (iii)
requires a location with characteristics such as proximity to transportation facilities or related
industries such that there is no suitable location in an urban growth area. The major industrial
development may not be for the purpose of retail commercial development or multitenant ofﬁce
parks.




L AND U SE E LEMENT                                                                                46
                                       CLARK2045
R E S O U R C E L AN DS

AGRICULTURE LANDS (AG)
These lands have the growing capacity, productivity, soil composition and surrounding land use to
have long-term commercial signiﬁcance for agriculture and associated resource production. This
designation is implemented by the Agriculture (AG-20) base zone.

AGRICULTURE/WILDLIFE (AG/WL)
This designation is applied to areas in the Columbia River lowlands which have the characteristics
to support long-term commercially-signiﬁcant agriculture and are valuable seasonal wildlife
habitat. The primary uses in this area are commercial agriculture, wildlife habitat management and
recreation. This designation is implemented by the Agriculture/Wildlife (AG/WL) base zone.

FOREST TIER I
This designation is applied to those lands which have the physical characteristics that are capable
of management for the long-term production of commercially signiﬁcant forest products and
other natural resources such as minerals. This tier is primarily applied to larger parcels and major
industrial forestry landowners. The Forest-80 (FR-80) base zone implements this designation.

FOREST TIER II
This designation is applied to those lands which have the physical characteristics that are capable
of management for the long-term production of commercially signiﬁcant forest products and
other natural resources, such as minerals. The Forest-40 (FR-40) base zone implements this
designation.

Previously Developed Agriculture and Forest Zoned Property
Land divisions of remainder or parent parcels created under previous Agriculture or Forest Zoning
District “Cluster” provisions, which are now within a resource zone or rural residential zone,
cannot further divide until brought into the urban growth area.


O V E R L AY S
An overlay zone lies on top of an existing base zone and provides an additional layer of
development standards or special provisions in addition to those in the underlying zone. Overlays
are used to accomplish a variety of land use and development goals such as:

     •   Providing design guidelines for a particular area,
     •   Maintaining current codes while addressing a special need of a particular area within a
         zone(s)
     •   Protecting valuable resources, such as historic and natural resources,
     •   Helping meet goals and objectives of the community, and



47                                                                             L AND U SE E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
   •   Protecting the quality of surface water.

For example, overlays may be applied to protect the historical nature of an area (e.g. materials,
façade design, or color). Overlays can manage development in or near environmentally sensitive
areas, such as groundwater recharge areas (e.g. to ensure water quality and quantity), special
habitat (e.g. species or feature protection) or ﬂoodplains (e.g. prevent ﬂood damage). Common
requirements may include building setbacks, density standards, lot sizes, impervious surface
reduction and vegetation requirements.

HIGHWAY 99 OVERLAY
This overlay district implements the Highway 99 Sub-Area Plan. Underlying zoning districts
remain unchanged, however there are additional or alternative permitted uses and design
standards. The overlay district provides for the use of a hybrid form-based code which establishes
minimum setback standards, minimum and maximum height standards and different parking
requirements and modiﬁes other regulations for the underlying zoning districts within the sub-
area.

MILL CREEK OVERLAY
This overlay implements the Mill Creek Sub-Area plan. The overlay provides for special provisions
and modiﬁes other regulations for the underlying zoning districts within the sub-area.

URBAN HOLDING OVERLAY
The Urban Holding Overlay protects areas from premature land division and development that
would preclude efﬁcient transition to urban development or large-scale industrial development.
The Urban Holding Overlay is implemented by Urban Holding-10 (UH-10) and Urban Holding-20
(UH-20) zoning overlay districts. Removal of the Urban Holding Overlay shall be consistent with
the special implementation procedures provided for in Chapter 15, Procedure Guidelines.
Designation and removal of the overlay is through a Type IV process.

URBAN RESERVE OVERLAY
The Urban Reserve Overlay lies on the fringe of the Urban Growth Boundaries and protects areas
from premature land division and development that would preclude efﬁcient transition to urban
development. These lands are identiﬁed as being future additions to Urban Growth Areas and may
be added to the urban area as necessary through amendments to the Comprehensive Plan. The
Urban Reserve Overlay is implemented by Urban Reserve-10 (UR-10) zoning overlay for future
urban residential development and Urban Reserve-20 (UR-20) zoning overlay for all other types of
future urban development.

SURFACE MINING OVERLAY
This designation is implemented with an overlay zone and recognizes existing mining areas and is
to allow for the future mining of minerals in an economically feasible way. Other land use controls



L AND U SE E LEMENT                                                                              48
                                       CLARK2045
which ﬂow from 20-Year Planning policies or state or federal law apply to development proposals
that are identiﬁed on zoning or other adopted maps but are not speciﬁcally identiﬁed on the 20-
Year Plan Map.

EXISTING HISTORIC RESORT OVERLAY
This designation is implemented with an overlay zone and recognizes the following existing
historic resort: Alderbrook. Criteria for approving additional existing historic resorts through the
Annual Review or period plan updates are set forth in RCW 36.70A.362.

RAILROAD INDUSTRIAL OVERLAY
This district is implemented with an overlay zone and recognizes the importance of the County
railroad as an economic development asset. The development standards in the overlay closely
match those of the County’s industrial zoning districts.

EQUESTRIAN OVERLAY
This overlay promotes equestrian activities by allowing the development of communities with a
focus on equestrian facilities, access to trails and on sustaining the area’s rich equestrian tradition.
An equestrian overlay may only be established on parcels located outside of the Urban Growth
Boundary.

AIRPORT ENVIRONS OVERLAY
This overlay is intended to identify and protect existing and/or future/new general aviation public
use airports that have been or may be signiﬁcantly impacted by adjacent development.

RURAL CENTER MIXED USE OVERLAY
The rural center mixed use overlay is intended to provide the opportunity for a limited number of
residential lots within rural centers to develop with a mix of retail, service, ofﬁce and residential
uses. Maintaining the rural character of rural centers is the paramount goal when considering
mixed use development.

WILDLAND URBAN INTERFACE
The county’s wildland urban interface/intermix ordinance recognizes that residential and
commercial development is occurring in what was once wilderness in Clark County. Urban
encroachment has created a high ﬁre hazard in areas where urban development is intermixed and
interfaces with the wilderness. These wildland urban interface/intermix geographic areas and
associated requirements are deﬁned in the wildland urban interface/intermix ordinance, codiﬁed
in Clark County Code Title 15 Fire Prevention.

MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OVERLAY
The Manufactured Home Park Overlay protects existing and new manufactured home parks
within urban growth areas to ensure ongoing viability of this unique form of naturally occurring


49                                                                               L AND U SE E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
affordable housing and to minimize displacement risks for residents. The Manufactured Home
Park Overlay is implemented by the Manufactured Home Park (MHP) zoning overlay district.

CONCURRENCY
A critical aspect of land development is the availability and delivery of public services needed to
serve that development. The GMA reinforces and formalizes this concept, known as concurrency,
to require that necessary public services be available as part of the concurrency management
program with new development. GMA requires that at minimum, speciﬁc levels of service
standards for transportation be adopted by local jurisdictions and those development proposals
which cannot demonstrate compliance with these adopted service standards be denied. If they so
choose, jurisdictions may also adopt levels of service for sewer, water, storm drainage, schools,
parks, ﬁre and police.

Further information and policies regarding service concurrency are contained in the applicable
element chapters. The establishment of level-of-service standards has signiﬁcant impact on future
land use development patterns as well as service delivery. Table 6.1 in the Capital Facilities and
Utilities Element summarizes generalized service provision anticipated in the urban and rural
areas of Clark County. The descriptions are not precise standards to be used for regulatory
purposes.

OVERBURDENED COMMUNITIES
Historical and current land use plans and associated development regulations can have a wide
range of impacts in a community, positive and negative. Those impacts may be felt more or less by
different populations and/or places. Impacts may also be cumulative, in which multiple impacts are
felt by the same population or place.

The WA State Department of Health developed an environmental health disparities map that
shows the relative burden of each census tract in the state related to 25 environmental and
socioeconomic factors. An overburdened community is a geographic area where vulnerable
populations face combined, multiple environmental harms and health impacts, and includes, but is
not limited to, highly impacted communities as deﬁned in RCW 19.405.020. A vulnerable
population is population groups that are more likely to be at higher risk for poor health outcomes
in response to environmental harms, due to adverse socioeconomic factors, such as
unemployment, high housing and transportation costs relative to income, limited access to
nutritious food and adequate health care, linguistic isolation, and other factors that negatively
affect health outcomes and increase vulnerability to the effects of environmental harms; and
sensitivity factors, such as low birth weight and higher rates of hospitalization as deﬁned in RCW
36.70A.030. A copy of the WA Environmental Health Disparities (EHD) map (version 3.0) for Clark
County is provided in Figure 37. Based on this map, the most burdened census tracts in the




L AND U SE E LEMENT                                                                              50
                                         CLARK2045
unincorporated county are located in the Hazel Dell, Minnehaha, and Five Corners/Orchards
areas. 6, 7

The Environmental Health Disparities map is consistent with local Clark County Public Health
research, plans, and policies. For instance, Clark County Public Health Prioritizing Places, 2024,
Clark County Community Health Assessment, and 2024-2029 Clark County Community Health
Improvement Plan (CHIP) all use a health lens to, respectively, identify priority places in the
community with poor health outcomes, identify priority community health needs, and identify
ways to improve health outcomes. The ﬁndings from these projects align with the information
illustrated in the environmental health disparities map. In 2020, the Clark County Board of Health
adopted Resolution No. 2020-12-05 relating to eliminate systemic racism and health inequities in
Clark County. These examples of county work and decisions point to a need for the county to help
address the root of persistent community needs and poor health outcomes.

With land use planning, the types of uses allowed in each zone and the compatibility or proximity
of different land uses near each other are examples of decisions that can impact community
health. Development regulations and the State Environmental Policy Act (SEPA) are additional
examples of land use tools that can help avoid or minimize negative environmental health impacts
associated with land uses. A few examples of land use planning considerations that relate to
environmental health impacts include:

     •   The county’s heavy industrial land use designation and associated zones allow uses that
         may be incompatible to be located near other types of uses due to negative environmental
         health impacts related to air quality, extreme heat, noise, or water quality. Planning
         additional growth to locate near heavy industrial land, or, planning additional heavy
         industrial land near areas with growth, could potentially worsen health in those
         communities.
     •   Neighborhoods adjacent to busy roadways experience pollution from vehicle exhaust and
         wear of brakes and tires. These roadways can also contribute to urban heat. Placing
         additional growth near heavy trafﬁc roadways could expose future residents and workers
         to diminished air quality, heightened noise, and hotter temperatures, affecting health.
     •   The health-related impacts of various land use patterns on spaces used by vulnerable
         populations, such as schools, childcare centers, senior facilities, and medical centers are
         important to understand and minimize.

Land use designations, associated infrastructure, and development regulations can impact the
health outcomes of a community. Ensuring access to green spaces and tree canopy, promoting
physical activity through the built environment, and reducing exposure to pollution, especially for


6
  The WA State Department of Health cautions using the EHD map alone and recommends incorporating
community engagement and local data when shaping policies, priorities, and projects.
7
  Census tracts in Fruit Valley and Washougal also rank high in the unincorporated area, however, most of
the population of those census tracts is located within incorporated areas.


51                                                                                  L AND U SE E LEMENT
                                         CLARK2045
overburdened communities, are important protective factors of health. Implementing policies that
improve these protective factors for vulnerable populations can help advance environmental
justice in the county.

GREEN SPACES, URBAN & COMMUNITY FORESTS
GMA speciﬁes that a land use element designates the proposed general distribution and general
location and extent of the uses of land, where appropriate, for open spaces and green spaces,
urban and community forests within the urban growth area.

In addition to parks/open space and public facility land use designations and associated base
zones, green spaces and urban and community forests are encouraged through various land use
planning tools within the unincorporated urban growth areas, including but not limited to: critical
areas ordinances and overlays, the Clark County Comprehensive Parks, Recreation and Open
Space Plan, green infrastructure such as stormwater management facilities, and urban tree canopy
policies. Further information and policies are contained in other, applicable element chapters.

The GMA deﬁnition for green space focuses on urban parcels less than one acre in size that are
vegetated and create public value. Clark County currently has approximately 240 acres of green
space in the unincorporated urban growth area that are less than one acre in size, vegetated, and
publicly owned. Larger vegetated parcels and privately owned properties in the urban
unincorporated growth area are not captured by this metric. See Chapter 7 – Parks, Recreation
and Open Space Element for more information on the existing tree canopy in the unincorporated
urban growth areas.

Table 1.7 Acres of Green Space 8 by Unincorporated UGA
    Unincorporated     Acres of
         UGA         Green Space 9
    Battle Ground            3.45
    Camas                    0.44
    La Center                0.79
    Ridgeﬁeld                0.23
    Vancouver              235.00
    Total                  239.91




8
  Green space deﬁnition in Table 1.7 is based on RCW 36.70A.030 and does not reﬂect all vegetated spaces
in the unincorporated urban areas in the county
9
  Source: Clark County GIS


L AND U SE E LEMENT                                                                                   52
                                      CLARK2045
GOALS & POLICIES
The 20-Year Planning policies listed in this element directly follow the mandates of the GMA and
the Clark County Community Framework Plan, adopted by Clark County in May 1993 pursuant to
GMA.


WASHINGTON STATE GOALS & MANDATES
As noted earlier, the GMA lists 15 broad goals regarding land use in general, as well as speciﬁc
mandates regarding the designation of urban growth boundaries and provisions for development
within the boundaries. Above all else, the GMA requires more compact growth patterns to allow
for more efﬁcient service delivery. GMA requires that a clear distinction be made between urban
and rural lands. Participating counties must adopt urban growth boundaries in which urban
growth will be encouraged and outside of which only nonurban growth may occur.

Similarly, urban level public services must be in place, or be capable of being provided within the
boundaries, but only rural level services should be provided outside the boundaries. The
boundaries must be large enough to accommodate urban growth levels projected by the state to
occur over a 20-year period and may include areas outside of existing city limits but only if those
areas are characterized by existing urban growth or are adjacent to areas of existing urban
growth.

In both the urban and rural areas, cities or counties must adopt level-of-service standards for basic
services such as transportation, sewer, water and stormwater provisions and must ensure that
new development proposals are capable of meeting those levels of service standards. The goals
and mandates of the GMA are presented in more detail in the Introduction of the 20-Year Plan.

GMA requires the Land Use Element goals and policies give special consideration to achieving
environmental justice including efforts to avoid creating or worsening environmental health
disparities. Land Use Elements must reduce per capita vehicle miles traveled, and reduce and
mitigate the risk to lives and property posed by wildﬁres.


COMMUNITY FRAMEWORK PLAN
Pursuant to the GMA, Clark County adopted the Community Framework Plan to establish an overall
vision for the long-term growth of Clark County consistent with the GMA and to articulate basic
policies related to land use to implement that overall vision. The Community Framework Plan also
contains policies, which are very general in nature, and were adopted to establish a procedure for
bridging the gap between the Community Framework Plan and the actual 20-Year Planning policies,
which are more speciﬁc.




53                                                                             L AND U SE E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
B U I L D A B L E L A N D S R E V I E W & E VA L U A T I ON P R O G R A M
The Buildable Lands Review and Evaluation Program, often referred to as the Buildable Lands
Program and established in RCW 36.70A.215 and WAC 365-196-315, requires Clark County and
its cities to collect data on buildable lands and analyze how planning goals are being achieved.
Local governments are required to monitor the amount and density of residential, commercial and
industrial development that has occurred since adoption of a jurisdiction’s Growth Management
comprehensive plan. If the results of the seven-year buildable land evaluation reveal deﬁciencies
in buildable land supply within UGAs, Clark County and the cities are required ﬁrst to adopt and
implement reasonable measures that will remedy the buildable land supply shortfall before
adjusting UGA boundaries. More information about the Buildable Lands program can be found on
the county’s website at: https://clark.wa.gov/community-planning/buildable-lands-report.

The Buildable Lands Program, at minimum, should answer the following questions:

   •   What is the actual density and type of housing that has been constructed in UGAs since
       the last comprehensive plan was adopted or the last seven-year evaluation completed? Are
       urban densities being achieved within UGAs? If not, what measures could be taken, other
       than adjusting UGAs, to comply with the GMA?
   •   How much land was actually developed for residential use and at what density since the
       comprehensive plan was adopted or the last seven-year evaluation completed? Based on
       this and other relevant information, how much land would be needed for residential
       development during the remainder of the 20-year comprehensive planning period?
   •   To what extent have capital facilities, critical areas and rural development affected the
       supply of land suitable for development over the comprehensive plan’s 20-year timeframe?
   •   Is there enough suitable land in Clark County and each city to accommodate countywide
       population growth for the 20-year planning period?
   •   Does the evaluation demonstrate any inconsistencies between the actual level of
       residential, commercial and industrial development that occurred during the seven-year
       review period compared to the vision contained in Clark countywide planning policies and
       comprehensive plans and the goals and requirements of the GMA?
   •   What measures can be taken that are reasonably likely to increase consistency during the
       subsequent seven-year period, if the comparison above shows inconsistency?


L A N D U S E E L E ME N T G O A L S & P OL I C I E S
The Land Use Element for 20-year comprehensive plans determines the general distribution and
location and extent of the uses of land, where appropriate, for agriculture, timber production,
housing, commerce, industry, recreation, open spaces and green spaces, urban and community
forests within the urban growth area, public utilities, public facilities and other uses. The Land Use
Element includes population densities, building intensities and estimates of future population
growth. The land use element is to provide for protection of groundwater resources and where
applicable, address drainage, ﬂooding and run-off problems and provide for coordinated solutions.


L AND U SE E LEMENT                                                                                54
                                     CLARK2045
The land use element is to advance environmental justice, reduce per capita vehicle miles traveled,
and reduce and mitigate wildﬁre risk. The following policies are to coordinate the efforts of Clark
County and cities in designating land uses, densities and intensities to achieve the pattern
described above in their respective Comprehensive Growth Management Plans.

Climate-related goals and policies within this element are noted as helping achieve greenhouse
gas reduction [GHG], resilience [RES], or both [GHG, RES]. VMT-reduction policies are tracked in
Appendix I.


1.1        C O U N T Y W I D E P L A N N IN G P OL I C I ES
           1.1.1      Clark County, municipalities and special districts will work together to
                      establish urban growth areas within which urban growth shall be
                      encouraged and outside of which growth may occur only if it is not urban in
                      nature. Each municipality within Clark County shall be included within an
                      urban growth area. An urban growth area may include territory located
                      outside of a city if such territory is characterized by urban growth or is
                      adjacent to areas characterized by urban growth.

           1.1.2      The County and relevant jurisdictions will consult with the Cowlitz Indian
                      Tribe where urban growth areas are adjacent to the boundary of the
                      Cowlitz Indian Reservation in order to assure that policies developed in
                      compliance with Chapter 36.70A accommodate the Tribe’s and relevant
                      jurisdictions' future growth needs. "Relevant jurisdictions" are deﬁned as
                      those adjacent to and/or affected by the Cowlitz Indian Tribe Reservation.

           1.1.3      Urban growth areas shall include areas and densities sufﬁcient to permit
                      the urban growth that is projected to occur in Clark County for the
                      succeeding 20-year period.

           1.1.4      Urban growth shall be located primarily in areas already characterized by
                      urban growth that have existing public facility and service capacities to
                      adequately serve such development and second in areas already
                      characterized by urban growth that will be served by a combination of both
                      existing public facilities and services that are provided by either public or
                      private sources. Urban governmental services shall be provided in urban
                      areas. These services may also be provided in rural areas, but only at levels
                      appropriate to serve rural development. Urban governmental services
                      include those services historically and typically delivered by cities or special
                      districts and include storm and sanitary sewer systems, domestic water
                      systems, street cleaning services, ﬁre and police protection, public transit
                      services and other public utilities not normally associated with non-urban
                      areas.



55                                                                             L AND U SE E LEMENT
                                    CLARK2045
          1.1.5       An urban growth area may include more than a single city.

          1.1.6       Urban growth is deﬁned as growth that makes intensive use of land for the
                      location of buildings, structures and impermeable surfaces to such a degree
                      as to be incompatible with the primary use of such land for the production
                      of food, other agricultural products, ﬁber, or the extraction of mineral
                      resources.

          1.1.7       Clark County and cities shall review their designated urban growth area or
                      areas in compliance with Chapter 36.70A.215. The purpose of the review
                      and evaluation program shall be to determine whether Clark County and its
                      cities are achieving urban densities within Urban Growth Areas. This shall
                      be accomplished by comparing the growth and development assumptions,
                      targets and objectives (Appendix K) contained in these policies (and in
                      county and city comprehensive plans) with actual growth and development
                      that has occurred.

          1.1.8       Each municipality within Clark County shall annually provide to Clark
                      County parcel speciﬁc information on land developed or permitted for
                      building and development in three categories: residential, commercial and
                      industrial. Clark County and municipalities shall follow the guidelines
                      speciﬁed in the Plan Monitoring Procedures Report for the collection,
                      monitoring and analysis of development activity and potential
                      residential/employment capacity.

          1.1.9       Clark County, in cooperation with the municipalities, shall prepare a
                      Buildable Lands Capacity Report consistent with Chapter 36.70A. The
                      report will detail growth, development, capacity, needs and consistency
                      between comprehensive plan goals and actual densities for Clark County
                      and the municipalities within it.

          1.1.10      Clark County and municipalities shall use the results of the Buildable Lands
                      Capacity Report to determine the most appropriate means to address
                      inconsistencies between land capacity and needs. In addressing these
                      inconsistencies, Clark County and municipalities shall identify reasonable
                      measures, other than adjusting urban growth areas that will be taken to
                      comply with the requirements of Chapter 36.70A.

          1.1.11      Population projections used for designating urban growth areas will be
                      based upon information provided by the Ofﬁce of Financial Management.

          1.1.12      Interagency Cooperation. Clark County and each municipality will work
                      together to:




L AND U SE E LEMENT                                                                            56
                             CLARK2045
              •   Establish a Technical Coordinating Committee (TCC) to develop an
                  ongoing coordination program within the urban growth area; Each
                  jurisdiction, the Cowlitz Indian Tribe and the Southwest Regional
                  Transportation Council may designate one staff representative and an
                  alternate to the TCC.
              •   Include the Cowlitz Indian Tribe as a member of the Technical
                  Coordinating Committee in order to facilitate interagency planning
                  efforts and intergovernmental coordination;
              •   Provide opportunities for each jurisdiction to participate, review and
                  comment on the proposed plans and implementing regulations of the
                  other;
              •   Coordinate activities as they relate to the urban growth area;
              •   Coordinate activities with all special districts;
              •   Seek opportunities for joint efforts, or the combining of operations, to
                  achieve greater efﬁciency and effectiveness in service provision; and,
              •   Conduct joint hearings within the urban growth areas to consider
                  adoption of Comprehensive Plans.

     1.1.13   Any local jurisdiction, including the county, may initiate an amendment to
              or request an interpretation of any Countywide Planning Policy, as follows:

              •   The local jurisdiction shall submit the proposed amendment or
                  proposed interpretation to the County Manager or their designee
                  (County Manager), and shall include the following in the proposal:
                  o In the case of an interpretation request, identiﬁcation of the policy
                      and the exact language of the proposed interpretation; or
                  o In the case of a proposed amendment,
                       The exact language of the proposed amendment (shown in
                         "strike out" for deletions and "underline" for additions); and
                       An explanation of the need for the proposed amendment,
                         including the factors, data, or analyses that have changed since
                         the adoption of the Countywide Planning Policies and/or the
                         experiences with the existing Countywide Planning Policies that
                         have prompted the proposed amendment; and
                       An analysis of how the proposal meets the criteria in
                         40.560.010.F through K, or city code, as applicable.
              •   The county shall initially refer a proposed amendment to or
                  interpretation request regarding the Countywide Planning Policies to
                  the Technical Coordinating Committee (TCC), (see also in Policy 1.1.12),
                  which shall review the proposal and develop a consensus-based
                  recommendation, as follows:




57                                                                   L AND U SE E LEMENT
                                     CLARK2045
                          o    TCC Members shall endeavor to reach agreement on a mutually
                               acceptable course of action regarding a proposed amendment or
                               interpretation request, with decisions made by agreement rather
                               than by majority vote where TCC members agree to support,
                               accept, live with, or agree not to oppose the decision. The TCC can
                               only make recommendations when a majority of members are
                               present. The TCC can only revisit a previous decision if a majority of
                               the TCC agrees.
                      •   If consensus regarding a proposed amendment or proposed
                          interpretation is not reached, the group will explore whether
                          modiﬁcations to that proposal can help achieve consensus. If the TCC
                          still cannot reach consensus, the proposed amendment or
                          interpretation will be forwarded through the remainder of the process
                          along with a summary of the meeting discussion in place of a
                          recommendation.
                      •   Once the TCC makes a recommendation, or cannot reach consensus, on
                          a proposed amendment, the process continues as follows:
                          o The county shall review the proposed amendment utilizing the Type
                               IV docket code amendment procedures as outlined in CCC
                               40.510.040, 40.560.010 and 40.560.030 for review of the proposal.
                          o If approved by the County Council, staff from each jurisdiction shall
                               bring the proposal through their respective jurisdiction’s adoption
                               or approval process.
                          o Each jurisdiction shall notify the County Manager of the results of
                               its adoption process.
                          o If the amendment is considered outside of the periodic review
                               process, each jurisdiction shall consider the amendment in its next
                               annual comprehensive plan update.
                          o If the amendment is considered as part of a periodic review process,
                               the timing of the request must reasonably coincide with the overall
                               schedule of the periodic review, or the request will be considered as
                               part of the next amendments docket as outlined in 40.560.030.

          1.1.14      Coordination of land use planning and development:

                      •   Clark County and each municipality shall cooperatively prepare land
                          use and transportation plans and consistent development guidelines for
                          the urban area.
                      •   Comprehensive Plans must be coordinated. The comprehensive plan of
                          each county or city shall be coordinated with and consistent with, the
                          comprehensive plans adopted by other counties or cities with which
                          Clark County or city has, in part, common borders or related regional



L AND U SE E LEMENT                                                                               58
                             CLARK2045
                  issues. The cities and Clark County shall play partnership roles in the
                  production of plans which provide the opportunity for public and
                  mutual participation, review and comment.
              •   Conversion of industrial or employment lands to non-industrial or non-
                  employment districts may occur within the following parameter:
                  o Protect and preserve lands zoned heavy industrial for heavy
                      industrial uses.
                  o Protect employment lands from conversion to residential.
                  o Consider rezoning of employment lands to non-retail commercial or
                      business park if the proponent can show that (a) the zone change
                      would accommodate unforeseen and rapidly changing commercial
                      development needs and (b) the proposed designation is more
                      suitable than the current designation given the land’s site-speciﬁc
                      characteristics and (c) the proposed zone change will generate
                      greater economic beneﬁt than the current comprehensive plan
                      zone allocation.
              •   Urban development shall be limited to areas designated by the urban
                  growth boundary. Clark County and each local jurisdiction will plan for
                  and provide housing based on the allocation and at the income levels in
                  the Housing for All Planning Tool (HAPT) in Appendix J.
              •   The zoning density targets, proposed by each jurisdiction, will be used
                  for estimating capacity in the Vacant Buildable Lands Model (VBLM) in
                  Appendix K.

     1.1.15   Urban Growth Area Centers (UGA) have a full range of urban levels of
              services and can be divided into three main categories:

              •   Vancouver Urban Growth Area is now or will be a major urban area
                  activity centers with a full range of residential, commercial and
                  industrial uses, high-capacity transit corridors, schools, major cultural
                  and public facilities. Major urban areas centers, have or will have, urban
                  densities of development. Areas along high capacity transit corridors
                  and priority public transit corridors may have higher than average
                  densities while other areas would have lower densities (e.g. established
                  neighborhoods and neighborhoods on the fringes of the urban area).
                  Regional institutions and services (government, museums, etc.) should
                  be located in the urban core.
              •   Urban Growth Areas of Battle Ground, Camas, Ridgeﬁeld and
                  Washougal, will have a full range of residential, commercial and
                  industrial uses, schools, neighborhood, community and regional parks
                  and are within walking distance to HCT corridors or public transit.
                  These areas will have employment opportunities and lower densities



59                                                                    L AND U SE E LEMENT
                                     CLARK2045
                          than major urban area centers. Higher densities occur along transit
                          corridors and in the community center, with lower densities in
                          established neighborhoods and on the outskirts of the community.
                          These urban growth areas centers should have a center focus that
                          combines commercial, civic, cultural and recreational uses.
                      •   Urban Growth Areas of La Center and Woodland will have
                          predominantly residential uses and include pedestrian-oriented
                          commercial uses, schools and small parks.
                      •   There are no standards for the Yacolt Urban Growth Area due to lack
                          of public sewer. A mix of residential uses and densities are or will be
                          permitted. Neighborhoods are to have a focus around parks, schools, or
                          common areas.

          1.1.16      Rural Centers are outside of urban growth areas centers and urban reserve
                      areas and provide public facilities (e.g., ﬁre stations, post ofﬁces, schools)
                      and commercial facilities to support rural lifestyles. Rural centers have
                      residential densities consistent with the surrounding rural minimum lot
                      sizes and do not have a full range of urban levels of services.

          1.1.17      Establish consistent regional criteria to determine the size of urban growth
                      areas for the 20-year comprehensive plans that:

                      •   assume the need for residential market factor lands added to the
                          amount called for in the population forecast to build in ﬂexibility.
                      •   include a household size consistent with the Department of
                          Commerce’s Housing for All Planning Tool (HAPT);
                      •   conserve designated agriculture, forest or mineral resource lands;
                      •   utilize innovative programs, including the transfer of development
                          rights;
                      •   ensure an adequate supply of buildable land;
                      •   have the anticipated ﬁnancial capability to provide
                          infrastructure/services needed for the 20-year growth management
                          population projections; and,
                      •   balance industrial, commercial and residential lands.

          1.1.18      Establish consistent regional criteria for urban growth area boundaries for
                      the 20-year comprehensive plans that consider the following:

                      •   geographic, topographic, man-made and natural features (such as
                          drainages, steep slopes, riparian corridors, wetland areas, etc.);
                      •   public facility and service availability, limits and extensions;
                      •   jurisdictional and special district boundaries;
                      •   location of designated natural resource lands and critical areas; and,


L AND U SE E LEMENT                                                                                60
                             CLARK2045
              •   minimize split designations of parcels.

     1.1.19   Clark County and each municipality shall give special consideration to
              achieving environmental justice in comprehensive plan goals and policies,
              including targeted efforts to avoid creating or worsening environmental
              health disparities and improve health outcomes in all communities. The
              jurisdictions shall collaborate on environment and health issues that cross
              jurisdictional boundaries, such as air and water quality.

     1.1.20   Clark County and each municipality shall plan for residential
              neighborhoods that protect and promote the health and well-being of
              residents by supporting equitable access to parks and open space, safe
              pedestrian and bicycle routes, clean air, soil and water, fresh and healthy
              foods, high-quality education from early learning through K-12, affordable
              and high-quality transit options and living wage jobs and by avoiding or
              mitigating exposure to environmental hazards and pollutants.

     1.1.21   Clark County and each municipality shall evaluate comprehensive plans for
              potential physical, economic, and cultural displacement of marginalized
              residents and businesses. Each jurisdiction shall use a range of strategies to
              mitigate displacement impacts.

     1.1.22   Engage and partner with communities disproportionately impacted by
              planning decisions and practices to inform strategies, actions, regulations
              and resource allocation decisions that reduce and repair harm to these
              communities.

     1.1.23   Clark County, each municipality, and Clark County Public Health shall
              collaborate to develop an agreed upon methodology for metrics and
              tracking outcomes related to improving environmental justice, reducing
              health disparities, and minimizing displacement. The methodology should
              acknowledge the complexity of measuring these challenges and the
              cumulative impacts on populations and places from compounding and
              intersecting impacts.

     1.1.24   Clark County and participating jurisdictions shall work cooperatively to
              implement a countywide transfer of development rights (TDR) program
              starting in 2027. This program shall work with the community to establish
              sending areas that preserve farmlands, forests, historical areas, and open
              spaces. The program shall also work with the community to establish
              receiving areas that encourage appropriate development projects and
              affordable housing opportunities. Preference is given to a program where
              the County serves as the TDR bank and assesses land and development
              values using current market valuation to assign TDR credits based on a pre-



61                                                                    L AND U SE E LEMENT
                                     CLARK2045
                      determined price per credit. Payments into the TDR bank may be allowed
                      outside of receiving areas as a mitigation tool. This program shall begin with
                      a community roundtable discussion hosted by the County to hear from
                      various jurisdictions and stakeholder groups for their visions for a
                      successful TDR program. [GHG]

          LA CENTER UGA
          1.1.25      There shall be no net material increase in cardroom capacity within the La
                      Center Urban Growth Area.

          COWLITZ INDIAN TRIBE
          To adequately plan for growth and implement the policies of the Growth Management
          Act, the county, municipalities, and special districts will consult with the Tribe to create
          continuous and on-going mechanisms that coordinate regional and local planning as
          follows:

          1.1.26      Meaningful and substantial opportunities for early and continuous tribal
                      government participation in planning.

          1.1.27      Local jurisdictions will work with the tribe to develop agreements that
                      provide for discussion on comprehensive planning issues among
                      governments. The parties will jointly determine the appropriate contents of
                      agreements and a schedule for completing them.

          1.1.28      The tribe, county, municipalities and special districts are encouraged to
                      coordinate plans among and between governments and agencies to address
                      substantive areas of mutual interest and promote complementary and
                      cooperative efforts.

          1.1.29      The county, municipalities, special districts, and tribe are encouraged to
                      keep one another informed about matters of local and regional interest by
                      mutually agreeable means and schedule.


C O U N T Y 20-Y E AR P L A N N I N G P O L I C I E S

GOAL:
Adopt Urban Growth Area (UGA) boundaries to eﬃciently accommodate residential
and employment increases projected within the boundaries over the next 20 years.

1.2       Policies

          1.2.1       The UGAs shall be consistent with the following general goals:



L AND U SE E LEMENT                                                                                62
                            CLARK2045
             •   reduce the inappropriate conversion of undeveloped land into
                 sprawling, low-density development;
             •   provide for the efﬁcient provision of public services;
             •   protect natural resource, environmentally sensitive and rural areas;
             •   encourage a clear distinction between urban and rural areas;
             •   maintain densities which support a multi-modal transportation system;
             •   support variety, choice and balance in living and working environments;
             •   promote a variety of residential densities; and,
             •   include sufﬁcient vacant and buildable land.

     1.2.2   The UGAs shall be consistent with the following more speciﬁc criteria:

             •   Each UGA shall provide sufﬁcient urban land to accommodate future
                 population/employment projections through the designated planning
                 period.
             •   Cities shall be located within UGAs. Urban services shall be provided
                 within those areas. Urban services should generally not be provided
                 outside UGAs. (See Chapter 6, Capital Facilities and Utilities for urban
                 and rural services.)
             •   Lands included within UGAs shall either be already characterized by
                 urban growth or adjacent to such lands.
             •   Existing urban land uses and densities should be included within UGAs.
             •   Land within the UGA shall not contain areas designated for long-term
                 agriculture or forestry resource use.
             •   UGAs shall provide a balance of industrial, commercial and residential
                 lands.
             •   The UGAs should utilize natural features (such as drainage ways, steep
                 slopes, open space and riparian corridors) to deﬁne the boundaries.
             •   No UGA expansion into the 100-year ﬂoodplain of a river segment that
                 is located west of the Cascade crest and when the river has a mean
                 annual ﬂow of 1,000 or more cubic feet per second per RCW
                 36.70A.110(8).
             •   Each UGA shall have the anticipated ﬁnancial capability to provide
                 infrastructure/services needed in the area over the planning period
                 under adopted concurrency standards.

     VANCOUVER URBAN GROWTH AREA
     1.2.3   Ensure coordination of environmental protection, preservation and
             enhancement programs and regulations.

     1.2.4   Coordinate and cooperate with other governmental agencies, districts and
             private and commercial interests throughout the Vancouver/Portland



63                                                                  L AND U SE E LEMENT
                                     CLARK2045
                      Metropolitan area in open space, park and recreation planning and
                      development.

          1.2.5       Restrict amendments to the urban growth boundary to encourage inﬁll
                      development.

          1.2.6       Concentrate development in areas already served by public facilities and
                      services. Use the provision or planned provision of public services and
                      facilities as a means of directing development into desirable areas.

          1.2.7       Water service should be extended throughout the Vancouver urban area in
                      accordance with the timing and phasing established in the Vancouver six-
                      year capital facilities plan. Extension of public water service should not be
                      permitted outside the Vancouver urban area.

          1.2.8       Encourage retroﬁtting areas with sewer and prohibit new development on
                      septic tanks in the urban growth area.

          WASHOUGAL URBAN GROWTH AREA
          1.2.9       Recognizing the authority of the National Scenic Area legislation, as a
                      matter of policy Clark County favors the exclusion of the Washougal UGA
                      from the National Scenic Area.

         YACOLT URBAN GROWTH AREA
         1.2.10       The Yacolt Urban Growth Boundary will be reevaluated by Clark County at
                      such time as the Town of Yacolt develops a plan assuring that public sewer
                      will be available.

         WOODLAND URBAN GROWTH AREA
         1.2.11       Recognizing that the Woodland UGA spans both Cowlitz and Clark
                      Counties, the Clark County Comprehensive Plan and the goals and policies
                      within it only apply to the Clark County portion of the Woodland UGA. The
                      City of Woodland will manage each portion of its UGA according to the
                      respective county’s comprehensive plan.

GOAL
Encourage more compact and eﬃciently served urban forms and reduce the
inappropriate conversion of land to sprawling, low-density development.

1.3       Policies

          1.3.1       Urban densities and uses may occur throughout the urban growth area if it
                      is provided with adequate services. Development and redevelopment in the



L AND U SE E LEMENT                                                                              64
                                    CLARK2045
                     UGA should be strongly encouraged to occur in greater intensity in major
                     centers, transit routes and other areas characterized by both existing
                     higher density urban development and existing urban services.
                     Development and redevelopment should be encouraged to occur with less
                     intensity in areas where urban development is of lower density or has not
                     yet occurred, or in areas where urban services do not yet exist.

          1.3.2      Devise speciﬁc policies and standards to promote higher density urban,
                     commercial and mixed-use development and to support pedestrian and
                     transit travel within high-density residential and commercial areas. [GHG,
                     RES]

          1.3.3      Encourage and provide incentives for inﬁll development throughout urban
                     areas. [GHG, RES]

          1.3.4      Zoning ordinances and other implementing measures shall specify
                     maximum and minimum residential densities within the residential zoning
                     districts.

          1.3.5      Property rights of landowners should be protected from arbitrary and
                     discriminatory actions.

GOAL:
Integrate land uses to reduce sprawl, promote physical activity through active
transportation and foster neighborhood and community identity.

1.4       Policies

          1.4.1      Plan for connected and accessible communities in the unincorporated
                     Vancouver urban growth area where a signiﬁcant majority of daily needs
                     can be met within a convenient and safe walk, ride, roll, or transit ride by
                     planning for amenity-rich activity centers and corridors, areas of dense,
                     mixed-use urban development, neighborhood-scale commercial
                     opportunities, and safe connections between destinations. [GHG, RES]

          1.4.2      Encourage mixed land use in the unincorporated Vancouver urban growth
                     area to locate many activities near each other and locate mixed land use
                     near public transit stops. [GHG, RES]

          1.4.3      Interrelated uses should generally be encouraged to locate in close
                     proximity of each other:

                     •   Frequently used commercial activities and the residential areas they
                         serve should be allowed and encouraged to locate near to one another.



65                                                                           L AND U SE E LEMENT
                                     CLARK2045
                      •   Schools or other frequently used public facilities and the residential
                          areas they serve should be allowed and encouraged to locate near to
                          one another.
                      •   Commercial, industrial or other employers and the residential areas
                          they serve should be allowed and encouraged to locate near to one
                          another, as long as negative impacts from non-residential uses on the
                          residential areas are mitigated. [GHG, RES]

          1.4.4       Encourage mixed-use developments, which provide opportunities to
                      combine residential, commercial or other uses within individual structures,
                      or within adjacent structures or developments. [GHG, RES]

          1.4.5       Promote the development of identiﬁable residential neighborhoods and
                      shopping districts through the encouragement of more compact
                      development patterns and the use of shared design and landscaping
                      characteristics and the development of landmarks. [GHG, RES]

          1.4.6       Encourage compact commercial development with an appropriate mix of
                      uses. [GHG, RES]

          1.4.7       Commercial developments should utilize shared facilities and
                      infrastructure, including but not limited to common wall structures, shared
                      parking lots, access points, sidewalks, signs or innovative design features.
                      [GHG, RES]

          1.4.8       Commercial development should be designed and located as follows:

                      •   Features to both allow for and encourage pedestrian access to and
                          between commercial developments and roadways shall be provided.
                      •   Storefront design with zero or minimal front setbacks should be used.
                          Frontal parking should be minimized. Side or rear lot parking should be
                          encouraged. [GHG, RES]

          1.4.9       Higher intensity uses should be located on or near streets served by transit.
                      [GHG, RES]

          1.4.10      Streets, pedestrian paths and bike paths should contribute to a system of
                      fully connected routes to all destinations. [GHG, RES]

          1.4.11      Access to the transit system should be provided.

                      •   Transit stations should be located at major activity centers and along
                          transit streets and nodes.
                      •   Neighborhoods and commercial nodes should have access to the public
                          transportation system.


L AND U SE E LEMENT                                                                                66
                                   CLARK2045
                    •   Transit stops should be located within convenient walking distance of
                        residential and employment populations.
                    •   Transit shelters should be provided where appropriate.
                    •   Bicycle parking should be included in commercial, industrial and public
                        facility sites. [GHG, RES]

GOAL:
Encourage resilient development within the unincorporated urban growth area and
away from areas that are prone to climate-related hazards such as ﬂooding and wildﬁre.
(See additional policies related to this goal in Chapter 14 – Climate Element). [RES]

1.5      Policies

         1.5.1      Seek to reduce natural hazard exposure through land use planning and
                    ensure that land use planning processes are informed by the most current
                    hazard information including the Clark Regional Natural Hazard Mitigation
                    Plan by: identifying and mapping hazards, assessing vulnerability, and
                    implementing measures to reduce risk, such as avoiding development in
                    ﬂoodplains, wildﬁre-prone areas, and landslide zones to the maximum
                    extent possible, incentivizing climate-smart building practices and ﬁre-wise
                    practices. [RES]

         1.5.2      Periodically review the county’s Wildland Urban Interface/Intermix
                    ordinance for consistency with best practices and revise if necessary. [RES]

GOAL:
Advance environmental justice through the Clark County Comprehensive Growth
Management Plan and associated plans, policies, development regulations, and
strategies. [GHG, RES]

1.6      Policies

         1.6.1      Review, evaluate, and update as needed practices, processes, procedures
                    and structures to advance environmental justice through all
                    Comprehensive Growth Management Plan amendments, associated plans,
                    policies, development regulations and strategies per RCW 36.70A.070.
                    [GHG, RES]

         1.6.2      Improve sustainability and environmental justice by engaging with
                    overburdened communities on new county-led planning projects. [GHG,
                    RES]




67                                                                         L AND U SE E LEMENT
                                    CLARK2045
          1.6.3       Review county development regulations for polluting and hazardous uses
                      and recommend ways to eliminate or minimize potential harm. [GHG, RES]

          1.6.4       Avoid creating or worsening environmental health disparities and work
                      towards eliminating environmental health disparities. [GHG, RES]

          1.6.5       Design and implement an unincorporated county anti-displacement
                      strategy to discourage displacement of vulnerable population groups due to
                      gentriﬁcation while fostering housing affordability and availability. [GHG,
                      RES]

   STRATEGIES
   •   Review proposals for UGA expansions for consistency with the above policies and the
       requirements of RCW 36.70A.215.
   •   Consider the above policies in the evaluation of zone change proposals.
   •   Encourage urban Planned Unit Developments which allow for better integration of related
       land uses, such as commercial and residential uses.
   •   Review zoning and site plan review standards to allow and encourage individual
       developments containing a mix of uses.
   •   Develop and adopt plan and Industrial Railroad zoning district with use provisions
       consistent with land use objectives.
   •   Review zoning and site plan review standards to encourage the provision of more compact
       and pedestrian and transit friendly commercial development.

   VANCOUVER URBAN GROWTH AREA
   •   Develop parking standards that reﬂect the community's desire which should include
       redevelopment potential of under-utilized parking lot parcels, establishing maximum
       parking requirements and shared parking.
   •   Establish city- and county-sponsored neighborhood associations supported by staff
       liaisons throughout the Vancouver urban area.
   •   Develop standards for affordable housing which consider parking requirements, vehicle
       trip generation, levels-of-service, neighborhood character and overall livability.




L AND U SE E LEMENT                                                                            68
     CLARK2045




69               L AND U SE E LEMENT
CHAPTER
HOUSING ELEMENT
                  2
                                      CLARK2045

CHAPTER 2
Housing Element

INTRODUCTION
The purpose of the Housing Element is to identify the need for and mechanisms that will lead to
the construction and preservation of decent housing for all economic segments of the Clark
County population. Regionally the Housing Element addresses needs throughout Clark County. It
sets policy direction for lands under county government jurisdiction, is coordinated to the greatest
extent possible with housing policies developed by cities and towns within greater Clark County,
and provides practical implementation guidance. The need for mechanisms to ensure a variety of
housing prices and neighborhood designs is discussed as well as the types of housing that should
be available in the future.

RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER ELEMENTS & PLANS
The Housing Element of the 20-Year Plan builds upon principles and policies established in earlier
county comprehensive plans. Earlier plans discussed housing primarily in light of its land use
implications. This plan addresses housing in broader terms, reaching beyond land use patterns and
densities to discuss issues such as affordability, special needs, community character, and racially
disparate impacts and displacement.

The Housing Element also builds upon principles and policy direction provided by the Countywide
Planning Policies and the Community Framework Plan. These policies, developed through an
extensive public participation process, are intended to provide long-term, overall guidance for
Clark County and its cities in developing the Housing Element for the 20-Year Plan.

RCW 36.70A.070 outlines GMA climate change and resiliency requirements. Chapter 14 –
Climate Element contains most climate change and resilience policies in the Comprehensive Plan,
but other elements also include climate policies. Climate-related goals and policies within this
element are noted in the goals and policies section of this chapter. See Chapter 14 for a
comprehensive discussion of climate policies, some of which overlap with housing.


C L A R K C O U N T Y C O N S O L I D A T E D P L AN
The Housing Element of the 20-Year Plan has a relationship to the Clark County Consolidated Plan.
Each jurisdiction that receives assistance from the US Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD) is required to prepare a plan that addresses the needs for low-income people.




71                                                                            H OUSING E LEMENT
                                          CLARK2045
Clark County recently completed a ﬁve-year Consolidated Plan for 2025-2029 10 which is designed
to:

      •   provide an assessment of housing, and community development needs in Clark County;
      •   provide an analysis of the housing market;
      •   develop strategies and prioritize goals to ensure support for programs and facilities that
          promote viable communities and address community development, infrastructure and
          human service needs of urban and rural areas;
      •   develop an annual action plan and descriptive method for distribution of CDBG and HOME
          funds and to carry out activities in support of this strategic plan for the ﬁrst year of the
          Five-Year planning period; and
      •   report the annual use of HUD entitlement funds.

The Housing Element uses many of the statistics and needs assessments prepared in the
Consolidated Plan. Implementation of the policies in the Housing Element through ordinances and
programs will assist in meeting needs identiﬁed in the Consolidated Plan.

Special needs populations, such as people who are homeless, people at risk for homelessness,
older adults, single parents, physically disabled, victims of domestic abuse, veterans, chronically
mentally ill, developmentally disabled, migrant farm workers and persons living with HIV/AIDS or
chemical addictions are addressed in both the Housing Element and the Consolidated Plan.

Housing affordability is a key component within the Growth Management legislation. Housing
affordability will be affected by policies adopted in the other elements including transportation,
public facilities, utilities, open space and recreation, land use and (for the county only) rural lands.
Likewise, the pattern and density of housing development will affect the cost to the county; to
local utilities to extend services such as water lines, sewer lines, transit service, ﬁre protection,
etc.; and, ultimately, to the businesses and residents of Clark County in user fees and taxes.

Updates of the county zoning ordinance, land division ordinance, Transportation Impact Fee (TIF),
Parks Impact Fee (PIF), Schools Impact Fee (SIF), and Fire Impact Fee (FIF) ordinances and new
ordinances and programs created as a result of this planning process, will implement the goals and
policies established in the Housing Element. These land use and development ordinances are
prepared by the respective municipal jurisdictions and should be reviewed for compatibility with
the plan.

HOUSING ELEMENT REQUIREMENTS
The Growth Management Act of 1990 (GMA), as amended, per RCW 36.70A.070(2) and WAC
365-196-410, requires that 20-Year Comprehensive Plans have a housing element ensuring the
vitality and character of established residential neighborhoods that:


10
     This report applied data from the 2020-2024 Consolidated Plan

H OUSING E LEMENT                                                                                     72
                                       CLARK2045
     •   Includes an inventory and analysis of existing and projected housing needs that identiﬁes
         the number of housing units necessary to manage projected growth and includes units for
         moderate, low, very low, and extremely low-income households; and emergency housing,
         emergency shelters, and permanent supportive housing 11;
     •   Includes a statement of goals, policies and objectives for the preservation, improvement
         and development of housing, including single-family residences, and within an urban
         growth area boundary, moderate density housing options including, but not limited to
         duplexes, triplexes, and townhomes;
     •   Identiﬁes sufﬁcient capacity of land for housing, including, but not limited to, government
         assisted housing, housing for moderate, low, very low and extremely low-income
         households, manufactured housing, multifamily housing, group homes, emergency
         housing, emergency shelters, permanent supportive housing and foster care facilities;
     •   Makes adequate provisions for existing and projected needs of all economic segments of
         the community, including: (i) Incorporating considerations for low, very low, extremely low,
         and moderate-income households; (ii).Documenting programs and actions needed to
         achieve housing availability including gaps in local funding, barriers such as development
         regulations, and other limitations; (iii) Consideration of housing locations in relation to
         employment location; and (iv) Consideration of the role of accessory dwelling units in
         meeting housing needs.
     •   Identiﬁes local policies and regulations that result in racially disparate impacts,
         displacement, and exclusion in housing, including: (i) Zoning that may have a discriminatory
         effect; (ii) Disinvestment; and (iii) Infrastructure availability.
     •   Identiﬁes and implements policies and regulations to address and begin to undo racially
         disparate impacts, displacement, and exclusion in housing caused by local policies, plans,
         and actions.
     •   Identiﬁes areas that may be at higher risk of displacement from market forces that occur
         with changes to zoning development regulations and capital investments.
     •   Establishes anti-displacement policies, with consideration given to the preservation of
         historical and cultural communities as well as investments in low, very low, extremely low,
         and moderate-income housing; equitable development initiatives; inclusionary zoning;
         community planning requirements; tenant protections; land disposition policies; and
         consideration of land that may be used for affordable housing.

ORGANIZATION OF THE ELEMENT
The Housing Element consists of three sections: the Background and Existing Conditions section
including statistics supporting the county's Housing Element. It summarizes existing conditions
and information in Clark County and focuses on inventory data, which support the policy
orientation on growth management; 2) the Goals and Policies section, on an issue by issue basis,


11
  See Appendix N for the land capacity analysis and breakdown of housing need by income band and by
zoning.

73                                                                               H OUSING E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
presents a comprehensive set of goals and policies to guide the implementation of the plan; and 3)
the Strategy section consists of a set of planning strategies related to housing in Clark County. See
the Consolidated Plan for additional information on county housing issues.

BACKGROUND & EXISTING CONDITIONS
The housing needs of Clark County are determined by the characteristics of its existing and
projected population (age, household size, income, special needs, etc.), when compared to the
characteristics of the existing and expected housing supply (size, cost, condition, etc.). Clark
County is expected to add approximately 190,754 people or 103,698 households over the next
twenty years. The issue facing local governments is where to direct this growth given
environmental constraints and the cost of providing public services and how to ensure that a range
of housing types and prices are available.

Much of the data contained in this section comes from the Consolidated Plan prepared by Clark
County Department of Community Services, and the Housing Inventory and Analysis: Clark
County Unincorporated Vancouver Urban Growth Area which was issued in March 2021 in
conjunction with the Housing Options Study and Action Plan.

The Consolidated Plan is required under the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act
of 1990. All jurisdictions eligible for funding under this act and wishing to participate in the
program are required to prepare a plan identifying the different types of housing needed in the
community and setting priorities for addressing them.

This report also contains data from the U.S. Bureau of the Census for the years 2016 – 2020, as
provided through the American Community Survey (ACS). Some of the data previously collected in
the decennial census was no longer being asked in the long form decennial census and was only
available through the ACS. This makes comparison to previous decennial census information a
challenge. The ACS data provided in this report is primarily of the 5-year survey which is more
reliable than the 1-year or 3-year survey. In addition to the Consolidated Plan and the ACS, data
from the Housing Inventory and Analysis (HIA) report as contained within the larger Housing
Options Study and Action Plan is also referenced herein.


POPULATION
Table 2.1 shows the population trends of the cities and unincorporated areas of Clark County from
2010 to 2020. There has been a signiﬁcant increase in the overall population of the county in the
last 15 years. Clark County population has increased approximately 18 percent since 2010, based
on the decennial census.




H OUSING E LEMENT                                                                                 74
                                              CLARK2045
Table 2.1 Population Trends in Clark County, 1990-2025 12
           Area             1990         2000           2010         2020         2025
 Clark County               238,053      345,238        425,363      503,311      542,400
 Unincorporated             173,844      166,305        203,339      233,048      245,750
 Incorporated                64,209      178,933        220,024      270,263      296,650
 Battle Ground                3,758        9,322         17,571       20,743       22,790
 Camas                        6,798       12,534         19,355       26,065       27,970
 La Center                      483        1,654          2,800        3,424        4,270
 Ridgeﬁeld                    1,332        2,147          4,763       10,325       16,290
 Vancouver                   46,380      143,560        161,791      190,915      205,100
 Washougal                    4,764        8,595         14,095       17,039       18,360
 Woodland 13                     94           92             83           84           85
 Yacolt                        600                        1,566        1,668         1,785


This growth has occurred in both unincorporated areas and in cities. The unincorporated areas
experienced a 23 percent increase in population since 1990 with 15% of the overall increase
occurring between 2010 and 2020. Incorporated areas of the county grew substantially in the
past ﬁfteen years, increasing by 23 percent since 2010. By 2045, the county anticipates a
population increase of 190,754 or a 42 percent increase over the 2015 census count of 451,820
estimating a total population of 718,154.


AGE
Table 2.2 shows the changes in the distribution of the age of the county’s population since 1990.
The data shows the largest population group for 2020 are persons aged 20-39 (130,267). Persons
aged 40-59 were the next largest group (130,003). Clark County's population continues to be
family households with children. Housing policy should make efforts to address the needs of this
signiﬁcant population.

Table 2.2 Age Distribution of Clark County Residents, 2010-2020 14
     Age          1990      2000       2010      2020           % Change        % Change
                                                               1990-2020       2010 -2020
 0-19             74,164   108,037    123,429   129,915               75%              5%
 20-39            75,080    97,649    108,959   130,267                4%             20%
 40-59            54,623    95,130    120,008   130,003              138%              8%
 60-85+           34,186    44,422     72,967   113,126              231%             55%
 Total        238,053      345,238    425,363   503,311              111%             18%




12
   Sources: OFM Forecasting, State of Washington web site. The 2010, 2020 and 2025 population numbers
are based on April 1, 2020 estimates.
13
   The portion of the City of Woodland population that resides in Clark County.
14
   Source: U.S. Bureau of the Census; Ofﬁce of Program Planning and Fiscal Management

75                                                                                     H OUSING E LEMENT
                                          CLARK2045
Comparing percentage change data provides insight into future growth trends. The largest
percentage increase occurred in the 60-85+ group, reﬂecting the aging of the baby boomer
generation. This trend will continue and require more attention be paid to the housing needs of an
aging population. Young adults may ﬁnd themselves increasingly pushed out of Clark County's
market, compared to persons aged 40-59 who may have more ﬁnancial ability to pay for housing.


R A C E & E T H N I C IT Y
According to the 2020 U.S. Census, the total minority population represents 27 percent (136,584)
of the county's population, up from 15 percent in 2010. The Consolidated Plan (2025-2029)
contains information on special populations and their housing needs. It reviewed the percentage
of minority persons in each census tract and found no concentrations of minority persons in any
one area of the county. In recent years, there has been an inﬂux of immigrants from Eastern
Europe and Russia into Clark County. These new residents, while not racial minorities, are a
distinct ethnic community. Their housing needs are being met by the private market, although they
may require assistance adjusting to their new communities. Table 2.3 shows the distribution of
population by race in Clark County in 2000 and 2020. From 2000 to 2010, the Hispanic population
in Clark County also substantially increased from 4.7 percent (16,248) to 7.6 percent (32,166).

Table 2.3 Clark County Population by Race and Ethnicity 15
      Race and            Total          % of           Total         % of          Total          % of
      Ethnicity          Persons       County          Persons      County         Persons       County
                          2000        Population        2010       Population       2020        Population
                                        2000                         2010                         2020
 White                 306,648         89.0%        363,397         85.4%        366727         72.86%
 Black                   5,813          1.7%          8,426          2.0%         10850          2.16%
 Native                  2,910          0.8%          3,624          0.9%          3051          0.61%
 American
 Asian/Paciﬁc            2,369           3.6%         20,212         4.7%         29,037         5.77%
 Islander 16 *
 Two or More            10,641           3.1%         17,219         4.0%         32,320         6.42%
 Races
 Hispanic                6,248           4.7%         32,166         7.6%         58,790        11.68%
 Other Race              6,857           2.0%         12,485         2.9%          2,536         0.50%
 Total 17**            345,238          100%        425,363         100%         503,311          100%




15
   Source: U.S. Bureau of the Census, 2020 Decennial Census.
16
   Native Hawaiian and Other Paciﬁc Islander were separated from Asian in 2010 and accounts for .6% of
total (2,708) persons
17
   Hispanic is considered ethnicity, not a separate race category and is not included in total percentage.

H OUSING E LEMENT                                                                                            76
                                             CLARK2045
HOUSEHOLDS
A household includes all the people living in one housing unit, whether or not they are related. A
single person renting an apartment is a household, as is a family living in a single-family house. The
number and type of households in a community can indicate the housing needs of that community.
Table 2.4 gives historic information on the numbers of households in Clark County and each of its
cities. As is the case with population, most of the household growth has occurred in incorporated
communities since 2010.

Table 2.4 Number of Households in Clark County, 1990-2020 18
            Jurisdiction/Area         1990       2000       2010         2020     % Change      % Change
                                                                                   1990-         2010 -
                                                                                    2020          2020
 Total Clark County                   88,571    127,208    167,413       195036     120.20%       16.50%
 Total Incorporated Clark             26,630     69,129     91,915       110468     314.83%       20.18%
 County
 Total Unincorporated Clark           61,941     58,079      75,498       84568        36.53%     12.01%
 County
 Battle Ground                         1,341      3,071       5,952        7449     455.48%       25.15%
 Camas                                 2,438      4,480       7,072        9234     278.75%       30.57%
 La Center                               129        552         981        1248     867.44%       27.22%
 Ridgeﬁeld                               441        739       1,695        3688     736.28%      117.58%
 Vancouver                            20,135     56,638      70,005       81809     306.30%       16.86%
 Washougal                             1,898      3,294       5,673        6444     239.52%       13.59%
 Woodland (part)                          49         46          53          55      12.24%        3.77%
 Yacolt                                  199        319         484         541     171.86%       11.78%


The county's growth patterns will change as a result of adopting this plan to implement the GMA.
Household growth, like population growth, will be directed to cities or urban growth areas which
will eventually be annexed to cities. If growth patterns in the future are similar to those of the past,
households in rural areas will be larger on average than those in urban areas, by approximately 10
percent. Table 2.5 shows the county’s household growth patterns since 1990.

Table 2.5 Household Characteristics in Clark County, 1990 - 2020 19
     Year        Total           Persons       Senior     Non-Senior
               Households          Per       Households   Households
                                Household
 1990               88,571           2.66        15,243         73,328
 2000              127,208           2.69        23,131        104,077
 2010              158,099           2.67        35,395        122,704

18
     Source: Intercensal Estimates of Housing Units, Washington State Ofﬁce of Financial Management.

19
     Source: U.S. Bureau of the Census and Washington Ofﬁce of Financial Management.

77                                                                                  H OUSING E LEMENT
                                          CLARK2045
     Year      Total         Persons        Senior        Non-Senior
             Households        Per        Households      Households
                            Household
 2020            178,478          2.68          52,580         125,898



INCOME
The relationship of household income to housing prices is the main factor affecting the ability of
Clark County's residents to secure adequate housing. Table 2.6 compares median household
incomes for Clark County and each of the cities. Median income is deﬁned as the mid-point of all
the reported incomes; that is, half the households had higher incomes and half the households had
lower incomes than the mid-point, with the county median household income very similar to the
statewide average.

Table 2.6 Median Household Incomes in Clark County, 2000-2020 20
     Jurisdiction/Area      2000         2010          2020      % Change   % Change
                                                                  2000-      2010-
                                                                   2020       2020
 Total Clark County        $48,376       $58,262      77,184        60%         32%
 Battle Ground             $45,070       $57,134      89,626        99%         57%
 Camas                     $60,187       $77,334      99,917        66%         29%
 La Center                 $55,333       $71,522      96,151        74%         34%
 Ridgeﬁeld                 $46,012       $76,295     102,508       123%         34%
 Vancouver                 $41,618       $48,875      70,385        60%         44%
 Washougal                 $38,719       $61,121      89,608       131%         47%
 Yacolt                    $39,444       $53,452      76,429        94%         43%
 Washington State          $45,776       $57,244      77,006        68%         35%



The deﬁnitions of extremely low, very low and moderate-income households are established by
the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). These terms are based on a
percentage of the area's median household income for a family of four. They are used to evaluate
income levels in Clark County. Table 2.7 shows the numbers of households in each income
category for 2010 and 2020.




20
     Source: U.S. Bureau of the Census

H OUSING E LEMENT                                                                              78
                                        CLARK2045
Table 2.7A Households by Income Group in Clark County, 2016-2020 21
               Income Group                 2016-2020       2016-2020         2016-2020     2016-2020
                                              Owner           Renter         # Households   Percent of
                                                                              (Combined)      Total
 Extremely low income (<= 30%                 7,970           11,745           19,715          11%
 HAMFI)
 Very Low Income (>30 to <= 50%               9,595           10,185           19,780          11%
 HAMFI)
 Low Income (>50% to <=80% HAMFI)             20,075          16,125           36,200          20%
 Moderate Income* (>80% to <=100%             14,245          6,965            21,210          12%
 HAMFI)
 Middle and Upper Income* (>100%              70,665          16,605           87,270          47%
 HAMFI)

Table 2.7B Households by Income Group in Clark County, 2016-2020 22
                              Median Income
                                  $77,184


Extremely low-income households include households whose incomes are 30% of median and
below. Very low-income households are those whose incomes are less than 50 percent of the
area's median family income. In 2020, a family of four making between $30,994 and $51,657 fell
into this category for a total of 39,495 households or 22 percent. This constitutes more than one-
ﬁfth of the county's households. Low-income households are those whose incomes are between
50 percent and 80 percent of the area's median family income. A family of four making between
$51,656 and $82,650 fell into this category. There were 36,200 households (approximately 20
percent of the total) that were deﬁned as low income in 2020.

Moderate-income households are those whose incomes are between 80 percent and 100 percent
of the area's median family income. In 2020, a family of four making between $82,650 and
$103,313 fell into this category. There were 21,210 households (approximately 12 percent of the
total) that were deﬁned as moderate income in 2020. Together, in 2020 moderate, low and very
low-income households constituted over 50 percent of Clark County’s households.


PERCENT OF INCOME SPENT ON HOUSING
HUD deﬁnes housing cost burden as the extent to which gross housing costs, including utility
costs, exceed 30 percent of gross income, based on data published by the U.S. Census Bureau. This
is the threshold at which the cost of housing typically becomes a burden. At this point the money
available for other necessary expenses such as food and medical care is reduced.



21
     Source: 2016-2020 Comprehensive Housing Affordability Strategy (CHAS)
22
     Source: 2016-2020 Comprehensive Housing Affordability Strategy (CHAS)

79                                                                               H OUSING E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
Generally, upper income households can afford a higher percentage of income for housing than
can lower income households. The percentage of income spent on housing increases as income
decreases. The lowest income households are, therefore, most likely to be overpaying for housing
relative to their income and in need of assistance.

The Consolidated Plan notes that between 2015 and 2020, the median home value increased from
$234,800 to $391,700, a 40% increase. During the same time period, the median rents increased
from $6061,026 to $1,375 per month; a 34% increase 23. Median sale prices are still increasing
faster than wages in the county. This means that more and more people are being priced out of the
market. Based on the projected increases in housing costs, new housing could be unaffordable to
extremely low, very low, low income and moderate-income households of Clark County.


S P E C I AL H O U S I N G N E E D S
Some people in Clark County need modiﬁed housing units or special services in order to live
independently. Other people require living in a group home or institutional environment. While
some of these people will have the resources to take care of their needs, many will not. The
Consolidated Plan identiﬁed special needs populations in Clark County and made
recommendations for serving those needs.


P H Y S IC A L L Y C H A L L EN G E D P ER S O N S
     •   Physically Challenged: The US Census Bureau, 2015 - 2020 ACS 5-year estimate identiﬁes
         approximately 33,101 noninstitutionalized people under the age of 64 have a disability,
         mobility and/or self-care limitations.
     •   Frail Elderly: The 2015 – 2020 ACS indicates that 33 percent of Clark County seniors
         report having a disability .
     •   Developmentally Disabled: As of 2021, the Clark County Department of Community
         Services estimates that there are approximately 9,060 persons (1.8 percent of the 2020
         county population) with developmental disabilities in the county. As of 2021, there are
         3,122 individuals known to the state Developmental Disabilities Administration who are
         eligible to receive state funded services. (see Developmental Disabilities Comprehensive
         Plan 2021-2025)

The majority of the housing needed for physically challenged persons is among older adults. These
people may need special housing with ramps instead of stairs, elevators for units with two or more
stories and modiﬁed facilities. The federal Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) of 1990 requires
building and zoning codes that improve access for disabled persons. These codes apply to new
construction and to major rehabilitation or remodeling of existing units.


23
  Per the Washington Center for Real Estate Research website (County Dashboard – Real Estate
Research)

H OUSING E LEMENT                                                                                80
                                         CLARK2045
 It, notably, is more expensive and not always possible to modify an existing unit for handicapped
accessibility. Older units, particularly older multi-family structures, are very expensive to retroﬁt
for disabled occupants because space is rarely available for modiﬁcations such as elevator shafts,
ramps and widened doorways. Much of the existing multi-family housing (traditionally the more
affordable housing) cannot economically be modiﬁed to meet the needs of disabled residents.


S E N I O R C I T I Z EN S
Senior citizens are deﬁned as people over age 65, according to the US Census, and are generally
considered a special needs group because of the high correlation between age and disability. Also,
many older adults live on a ﬁxed income and cannot afford higher rents. If they own their own
home, they may not be able to afford the cost of increasing taxes or maintenance. A ﬁxed income
also may not permit them to rent a new apartment in a new facility that would provide them with a
full range of care services.

In 2020, there were 74,453 senior citizens living in Clark County. Of which, 70 percent (52,004) of
senior citizens live in family households headed by people over age 65 - Table 2.8. Another 24
percent (18,142) live alone, and 4 percent (2,960) live with non-relatives. At least 2 percent
(1,347) of the senior citizens live in group quarters (e.g. nursing or retirement homes).

Table 2.8 Senior Citizens Housing Arrangements in Clark County, 2020
     Household Type          Total Numbers     Percent of
                               of Persons        Total
 Family Household                    52,004             70
 Non-Family Households               21,102             28
 Living Alone                        18,142             24
 Group Quarters                       1,347              2
 Total                               74,453           100



The population of elderly residents is increasing and will continue to increase through the end of
the decade. In addition, people are living longer and the number of people over 75 is increasing.
The 2020 census reports that there are 55,192 persons over the age of 75 living in Clark County,
an increase of 34,564 persons, a 167% increase from as recorded in the 2010 census. The majority
of the elderly populations prefer to live independently in family units or alone. This population
would be well served by a variety of housing types that lend themselves to smaller, affordable and
accessible rental and housing units. Elderly persons who live with family or friends might beneﬁt
from zoning provisions that allow for another, smaller unit to be built on single-family lots.


H O M E L E S S P E R SO N S
HUD deﬁnes "homeless" as those persons or families which "(1) lack a ﬁxed, regular and adequate
nighttime residence; (2) Individual or family who will imminently lose their primary nighttime

81                                                                               H OUSING E LEMENT
                                       CLARK2045
residence; (3) Unaccompanied youth under 25 years of age, or families with children and youth,
who do not otherwise qualify as homeless under this deﬁnition; and, (4) any individual or family
who is ﬂeeing, or is attempting to ﬂee, domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, stalking,
or other dangerous or life-threatening conditions and has no other residence, and lacks the
resources or support networks to obtain other permanent housing." This deﬁnition does not
include persons forced to live with friends or relatives, in unsafe or inappropriate housing. This
deﬁnition also excludes recently homeless persons who are in transitional housing programs but
have not yet attained housing self-sufﬁciency.

The Council for the Homeless notes in the 2023 Homeless Crisis Response System Report that the
fastest growing groups of homeless persons in Clark County are categorized as Black, Indigenous
and People of Color (BIPOC), representing 42% of the people who were homeless. The Council for
the Homeless operates a referral hotline seven days a week to refer homeless persons to available
shelter.

   Families with Children: This is one of Clark County's largest un-housed populations. Both
   single and two parent families are sheltered in all except one shelter facility on a space
   available basis. Most shelters allow a 30-day stay.

   Youths: Of the 8,752 people who experienced homelessness in Clark County in 2023, 737
   were Youth ages 12-17, and 735 were Young Adults ages 18-24. Combined that means 16% of
   people experiencing homelessness in 2023 were aged 12–24.

   Domestic Violence: There is currently one emergency shelter (28 spaces) in Clark County for
   victims of domestic violence. As reported in their 2025 audited ﬁnancial statement, the
   SafeChoice Domestic Violence Program served 1,165 unduplicated survivors of domestic
   violence and responded to 10,590 calls to our 24-hour crisis line during the 2025 ﬁscal year.
   The emergency shelter provided up to 9,486 bed nights for 51 adults and 72 children.

   Aging Adults: In 2023, adults aged 55+ experiencing homelessness decreased by 4% from
   2022. To support this positive shift and continue the downward trend, the addition of more
   focused senior programs, should be considered.

Based on this information, homeless persons have a signiﬁcant need for housing in Clark County.
Housing policies should address the needs of this population, as well as the needs of persons at 30
percent of area median income and below. Since some homeless families and individuals have
disabilities or require a period of extra support, a strategy should include permanent supportive
housing.


P R O J EC T E D H O U S E H O L D G R O W T H
The population growth forecast of OFM is translated into approximately 103,698 additional
households who will be seeking housing in Clark County by the year 2045. Table 2.9 highlights the
percent change of 10 years and the average annual change within the county. Based on growth

H OUSING E LEMENT                                                                                  82
                                         CLARK2045
projections from the Washington Ofﬁce of Financial Management (OFM), the county will grow at a
rate of 1.4 percent per year. The characteristics of these households are likely to change over the
period covered by the 20-Year Plan as the population of the county, the state and the United
States as a whole age. In 2010, households with elderly heads made up 17.5 percent of the total
households. In 2020, the number of households with elderly heads increased to 25.41 percent.

Table 2.9 Population Trends, 1950-2045 in Clark County 24
     Year       Total            10-year         10-year %         Average
              Population        Increase          Change           Annual %
                                                                    Change
 1950              85,307                NA                  NA            NA
 1960              93,809             8,502                 10.0           1.0
 1970             128,454            34,645                 36.9           3.7
 1980             192,227            63,773                 49.6           2.0
 1990             238,053            45,826                 23.8           2.4
 2000             345,238           107,185                  45            4.7
 2010             425,363            80,125                 23.2           2.1
 2020             527,400           102,037                 19.3           1.9
 2045             718,154               N/A                 N/A            N/A



HOUSING RESOURCES
Table 2.10 shows the number and type of housing units in Clark County for the period 2000-2020.
The total number of housing units in Clark County in 2010 was 169,520. Single family homes make
up 73 percent (122,935) of this stock. Multi-family homes constitute 22 percent (38,096) of this
stock. Manufactured homes make up 4.7 percent (8,031) of the housing stock of Clark County.


Table 2.10 Number of Housing Types in Clark County, 2000-2020 25
       Housing Types            2000              2010              2020
                       26
 Single Family Units               94,664           122,935           132,960
 Multi-Family Units                30,217            38,096            38,334
 Manufactured/Mobile                8,833             8,031             7,184
 Home Units 27
 Unknown                               316                  458               --


24
   Sources: Washington State Ofﬁce of Financial Management, April 1 Intercensal and Postcensal Estimates
of the Total Resident Population by Year 1968-2002; Washington State Growth Management Population
Projections for Counties: 2010 to 2040
25
   Source: U.S. Bureau of the Census
26
   Includes attached and detached units and 2010-2014 American Community Survey (ACS) 5-year
Estimates
27
   The ACS uses the term mobile home instead of manufactured

83                                                                                 H OUSING E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
    Housing Types             2000             2010             2020
 Total Units                   134,030           169,520          178,478

Using 2000 - 2020 ﬁgures, the total number of housing units in the county has risen by 7.29
percent since 2010 and 33 percent since 2000. The number of single family units has risen 8.15
percent since 2010 and 40.45 percent since 2000. Multi-family units have increased in number by
less than 1 percent since 2010 and 26.86 percent since 2000. Manufactured (and other) housing
has shown a decrease of 21.48 percent over 2000 ﬁgures and an additional decrease of 15.37
percent since 2000.


C O U N T Y F U N D IN G F O R A F F O R D A B L E H O U S I N G
Clark County utilizes Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) and HOME Investment
Partnership Funds (HOME) for funding of capital projects related to affordable housing, and state
Consolidated Homelessness Grant (CHG) and local Document Recording Fees (DRF) for operating
funds for shelters, transitional, and permanent housing.

Oversight for CDBG and HOME funds is provided by the Urban County Policy Board (UCPB),
which is composed of elected public ofﬁcial from each local government outside City Vancouver,
or a designated alternate. The UCPB adopts procedures and criteria for the allocation of HOME
and CDBG funds; reviews and recommends proposals for funding; reviews Consolidated Plan and
Annual Action Plan. Proposals for funding are received through a competitive public solicitation
that takes place on an annual cycle. The public solicitation make available the annual allocation of
CDBG and HOME funds of approximately $1,500,000 of CDBG and $600,000 of HOME funds. A
program history of CDBG funded projects can be found on the Community Services CDBG web
page at https://clark.wa.gov/community-services/community-development-block-grant and a
program history of HOME funded projects can be found on the Community Services HOME
webpage at https://clark.wa.gov/community-services/home-investment-partnerships-program.

Oversight of the CHG and DRF funds allocated as operating funds for shelters, transitional, and
permanent housing is provided by the Clark County Council, under the advice of the Community
Action Advisory Board (CAAB). The CAAB is composed of elected public ofﬁcial from each local
government outside City Vancouver, or a designated alternate. The role of the CAAB is to
advocate on behalf of people who are low-income to ensure services are available and equitable
and reviews and recommends proposals related to homeless housing and services for funding.
Proposals for funding are received through a competitive public solicitation for proposals that
takes place on a three-year cycle. The amount of funding available in the solicitation varies,
depending on the CHG amount the County receives from the State as well as the local collection of
DRF which is contingent on real estate transactions. Over the past couple of years, Clark County
has received an average of $14,000,000 per year in CHG funds from the State and collected
almost $6,000,000 per year in local DRF. Detailed revenue and expenditure reporting per year, as
well as reporting on outcomes can be found in the CAAB Meeting Documents section of the


H OUSING E LEMENT                                                                                 84
                                            CLARK2045
Community Services CAAB webpage at https://clark.wa.gov/community-services/caab-
community-action-advisory-board.

In 2026, the Clark County Council approved a 0.1 percent sales tax that will generate about $6.5
million a year for affordable housing and behavioral health services. The tax revenues can be used
for the construction, acquisition and maintenance of affordable housing for those who make 60
percent of the area median income or less.


HOUSING TENURE
Table 2.11 shows housing units by type of occupancy over time. In 2020, four percent (4%) of the
total units were vacant. Typically, six percent is considered a normal or healthy vacancy rate. The
remaining units (178,478) were occupied. Of these, 67 percent (119,725) of the units in Clark
County were owner-occupied. The remaining 33 percent (58,753) were occupied by renters.


Table 2.11 Number of Housing Units by Occupancy Type in Clark County, 2000-2020 28
      Housing Occupancy Type             2000      2010       2020
 Total Housing Units                     134,030   167,413   186,317
 Vacant Units                              6,822     9,314      7,839
 Occupied Units                          127,208   158,099   178,478
 Owner-Occupied Units                     85,550   104,003   119,725
 Renter Occupied Units                    41,658    54,096    58,753




HOUSING COSTS
The Consolidated Plan notes that affordable housing is generally associated with an adequate
supply of older housing. The 2020 Census indicated that Clark County has approximately 6,693
housing units that were built in 1939 or earlier. This is 4.3 percent of the current housing stock.
Future affordability will be greatly affected by market conditions. However, it can be assumed that
existing older housing stock will continue to provide many of the more affordable units in the
future, unless there is some form of public intervention in helping to reduce the costs of new units.


RENTAL COSTS
Table 2.12 shows the average rental costs for the Vancouver area for the years 2015, 2020, and
2025. The data reﬂects an average rental increase between 2015-2020 of 59 percent. Between
2020 and 2025, the region saw another large increase of approximately 32% in rental data for one,



28
     Source: U.S. Bureau of the Census

85                                                                                   H OUSING E LEMENT
                                         CLARK2045
two, and three-bedroom units. This 91% rent increase in this 10-year period accurately reﬂects
the housing affordability crisis.


Table 2.12 Fair Market Rents in Clark County, 2015, 2020, and 2025 29
         Year        One Bedroom       Two Bedroom       Three Bedroom
 2015                         $793               $944             $1,391
 2020                         1,289              1,495             2,157
 2025                         1,750              1,997             2,739


Renters in Clark County are diverse. For some moderate and upper income households, renting is
a choice despite the fact that they have the ﬁnancial means to buy a home. For some young
households, renting is a stepping stone to future homeownership. For many low and moderate-
income households, however, renting is the only ﬁnancially feasible choice due to the high cost of
ownership, including initial investment costs. The rising cost of renting has the greatest effect on
the most vulnerable of Clark County's population. Once rents get too high, low-income
households are forced to double up with family members, live in an apartment that is far away
from their job, school, or social networks or sometimes are even forced into homelessness.


SUBSIDIZED HOUSING
According to the Consolidated Plan, rent assistance programs are available to assist only a portion
of the 22,575 low-income renter households in Clark County. Single person non-elderly (or non-
disabled) households are not eligible for assisted housing under the programs now offered in the
county.

The Vancouver Housing Authority (VHA) administers rental assistance vouchers for about 3,500
Clark County households. That includes both tenant-based vouchers as well as project-based
vouchers. VHA and partner nonproﬁts also own and or manage about 400 subsidized apartments
through the HUD 202, HUD 811, and New Construction Section 8 programs.


M A R K E T & I N S T IT U T I O N AL I N F L U E N C E S O N H O U S IN G
PRODUCTION

Typical of most communities in the Unites States, the primary inﬂuences on housing price in the
county include, but are not limited to:

     •    land use controls which limit both the areas where housing may be built and the density of
          development, with a resulting impact on land cost and development costs;


29
  Source: US Department of Housing and Urban Development FY2011-2016 Fair Market Rent, for the
Portland-Vancouver-Hillsboro, OR-WA MSA

H OUSING E LEMENT                                                                                 86
                                       CLARK2045
     •   building code requirements (such as those related to the Americans with Disabilities Act;
         energy efﬁciency, etc.) which may increase construction costs and ultimately increase
         housing price;
     •   off-site improvement requirements;
     •   ﬁnance costs such as interest rates, other loan costs;
     •   tax limitations measures that limit the public sector’s ability to subsidize housing
         development;
     •   materials and construction costs; and,
     •   in-migration and mismatches in housing supply and demand.

Most notably, the construction costs and home purchase prices rise with interest rates. Since the
large number of savings and loan failures in the late 1980s, federal regulators have reduced the
percentage of an institution's portfolio, which can be in real estate development. This has resulted
in making ﬁnancing of residential development more difﬁcult. Similarly, increases in land costs or
construction costs will increase the cost of the housing which is developed unless more units can
be built on the same site. Rising energy costs increase the costs of construction and maintenance
of housing units; however, conservation measures can reduce lifecycle costs for energy.


THE HOUSING NEEDS CONTINUUM IN CLARK COUNTY
Housing affordability issues impact all households in all income groups. Every household has an
income at one level or another and must ﬁnd housing that meets but does not exceed the
requirements of that income level. Sometimes this relationship is called "attainability." Households
at higher incomes have fewer housing affordability problems, largely because their incomes allow
greater ﬂexibility to access housing at, or less than, their incomes. In addition, there are generally
more housing units available within their income ranges. Persons with lower incomes have more
housing affordability problems partially because their ability to access housing in their target price
range is limited by persons from higher ranges "buying down," and by limited numbers of units. In
addition, the lower the income range, the less potential the household has for "buying down".

What is affordable housing? Housing affordability is deﬁned by ﬁnancial lenders, government
ofﬁcials and ordinary residents in different ways. Lenders generally claim that affordable housing
is housing expenditure at or below 30 percent of household income. A household earning
$124,100 (the county median in 2025) should spend no more than $37,230 per year or $ 3,103
per month on housing. This may be in rent or mortgage payments.

It is apparent that the deﬁnition of affordable housing has altered over time and continues to be in
dispute depending on the perspective of the groups involved. Lenders and bureaucrats respond in
a manner assessing the total debt limit that appears to be a reasonable lending risk at any point in
time. Families respond in terms of their personal preferences and their other debts. Low and
moderate-income advocates respond in terms of the impracticality of accumulating four-ﬁgure
down payments and in terms of the potentially disastrous impact on people with fragile incomes


87                                                                              H OUSING E LEMENT
                                       CLARK2045
when every available penny is committed to housing. There are six components when addressing
the affordability issue as follows:

       •   availability of properly zoned and buildable land;
       •   cost of borrowing money;
       •   regulatory restrictions inﬂuence affordability;
       •   consumer expectations;
       •   wage/housing balance, which is the relationship between the wages earned by people
           in the community and the housing price; and
       •   jobs/housing balance, which is the relationship between the location of jobs and the
           location of housing.

All these components need to be addressed in determining the affordability issue for a community.

This Chapter deﬁnes housing affordability as a range of expenditure, which should be between 30
percent of income and/or house purchases at 2.5 times household income. These are conservative
measures, which serve to decrease the amount of expenditure suitable for housing from those
levels illustrated by many lenders in their standard publications. It is believed that these measures,
however, are more reﬂective of the real level of expenses that moderate- and low-income
households can bear, noting that most households have standing ﬁnancial commitments that
decrease their loan to value ratios.


H O U S I N G B A R R I ER S & S T R AT E G I E S M A T R I X
The Clark County Housing Options Study and Action Plan (HOSAP) identiﬁes housing challenges and
opportunities to encourage development of housing that is affordable to a variety of household
incomes through removal of regulatory barriers and implementation of other strategies. These
strategies are needed to help ensure future generations have access to affordable, quality and
diverse housing opportunities. Appendix O lists the range of housing actions that will address the
identiﬁed housing barriers.


R A C I A L L Y D I SP AR A T E I MP A C T S & D I S P L AC E M E N T
Racially disparate impacts occur when policies, practices, rules or other systems result in a
disproportionate impact on one or more racial groups. The Growth Management Act requires
housing elements to identify local policies and regulations that result in racially disparate impacts,
displacement and exclusion in housing, identify and implement policies and regulations to address
and begin to undo racially disparate impacts, displacement, and exclusion, identify areas that may
be at higher risk of displacement, and establish antidisplacement policies. Appendix M provides a
racially disparate impacts analysis related to these topics in addition to the following information.




H OUSING E LEMENT                                                                                  88
                                           CLARK2045
Table 2.13 Clark County Income by Race and Ethnicity, 2020 30
             Race and Ethnicity                   Total            % of      Median       % of
                                                Households       County      Income     County
                                                  2020          Population    2020      Median
                                                                  2020                  Income
 White                                            155,670         83.3%      $77,184    102%
 Black or African American                         3,263          1.8%       $61,475     80%
 American Indian and Alaska Native                  974            .5%       $63,939     83%
 Asian                                             7,441          4.2%       $89,583    116%
 Native Hawaiian and Other Paciﬁc Islander         1,186          .70%       $66,505     86%
 Some other race                                   6,675          1.8%       $49,611     64%
 Two or more races                                 11,756         3.7%       $69,662     90%
 Hispanic or Latino origin (of any race)           3,269          6.6%       $57,521     75%



Clark County household incomes are generally lower across Black, Indigenous, and people of color
(BIPOC) groups when compared to countywide and white alone income levels. As a result, rising
housing costs disproportionately burden households of color, who spend more of their income on
housing and have lower homeownership rates. These factors create a higher risk of exclusion and
displacement for BIPOC community members within the county.

Most households in Clark County are not cost burdened by housing, paying less than 30% of their
income toward housing costs. According to the Consolidated Plan (2020-2024), approximately
18.3% of households in the jurisdiction are cost burdened by housing, paying between 30 and 50%
of their income toward housing related costs. An additional 11,825, or 12.12% of households are
severely cost burdened, paying more than 50% of their income toward housing.

Per the 2020-2024 Consolidated Plan, Hispanic households are disproportionately burdened by
housing costs, with only 54.2% of households paying less than 30% for housing; 27.7% of Hispanic
households are cost burdened and 16.9% of Hispanic households are severely cost burdened,
paying more than 50% of their income toward housing costs.

Per the Housing Options Study and Action Plan, in the unincorporated Vancouver Urban Growth
Area, approximately 44% of households who rent and 23% of households who own their home are
cost burdened or severely cost burdened. The data also shows a disproportionate number of cost
burdened households among Hispanic/Latino and Black or African American racial groups in the




30
  The American Community Survey reports 178,478 households with a median income of $77,184 and
a margin of error +/-747 in overall households and +/- $1,513 in median income.

89                                                                                H OUSING E LEMENT
                                       CLARK2045
county. There is a lower rate of cost burden among White and Asian racial groups compared to
population in the county. 31, 32

Displacement occurs when people must move from their homes for reasons beyond their control.
This could include moves due to rising rents, evictions or foreclosures, cultural or social exclusion,
or other factors. Displacement risk is calculated by looking at areas with increasing rents, areas
experiencing demographic shifts, or areas that are vulnerable to change based on factors such as
income, race, or rental status.

Clark County has had the highest number of evictions per capita in Washington State for three
consecutive years which has been tied to the widening gap between residents’ incomes and rental
costs with limited rental assistance availability. Clark County homeowners have not had a
disproportionately higher risk of foreclosure than homeowners in other counties in Washington.

The Washington Department of Commerce Displacement Risk Map (Figure 35) identiﬁes areas
around Clark County that are at high and moderate risk of displacement due to accelerating
market trends, disinvestment, and gentriﬁcation. In unincorporated Clark County, the census
tracts with a high risk for displacement are located in the unincorporated Vancouver Urban
Growth Area along I-5 and Highway 99 (West and Northeast Hazel Dell, northeast Felida, and
Sherwood neighborhoods), Minnehaha area (Truman neighborhood), and Five Corners/Orchards
area. Manufactured home parks within the Vancouver urban growth area have also been
identiﬁed as a housing type where residents are at a high risk of displacement due to the limited
alternatives available when space rents are increased or parks are closed.



SUMMARY & CONCLUSIONS
The inventory and analysis presented in this Chapter lead to the identiﬁcation of a variety of
factors that will affect the ability of households in Clark County to ﬁnd suitable affordable
housing. The following section highlights the issues affecting housing affordability for all segments
of the population in the future.

The cost for land and construction of new housing has been increasing rapidly. If the trend
continues, then there will be even less affordable new housing built in the county. The needs of
middle as well as lower income households will be more difﬁcult to meet with new housing.

Restrictions on local government funding resources have resulted in increasing use of
development impact fees to pay for the cost of extending services to new housing developments.
However, these impact fees increase the cost of the new housing. The goal of making new

31
 Source: Housing Options Study and Action Plan, Appendix D: Housing Inventory and Analysis.
32
 Note: differences in numbers in this section and Appendix M depend on the data source and timing data
was accessed.

H OUSING E LEMENT                                                                                    90
                                      CLARK2045
development "pay its own way" may run counter to the goal of producing an adequate supply of
affordable housing.

Changes in federal regulation of the banking and savings and loan industries have affected the
availability of ﬁnancing for residential development and the types of projects being ﬁnanced. It is
much harder to ﬁnance projects now and ﬁnancial institutions are requiring greater equity
participation by the developer in each project. It is also more difﬁcult to ﬁnd ﬁnancing for unusual
or creative housing designs, which might reduce the cost of each home to the purchaser or renter.
Federal, state and local governments should consider public subsidies in order to ensure that such
housing is available.

Increasing federal, state and local environmental protection regulations have reduced the amount
of land available for development and increased the time and cost involved in producing housing.
The goal of protecting sensitive environmental resources may run counter to the goal of producing
an adequate supply.

The Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) requires that ﬁnancial institutions demonstrate that
they invest a portion of their funds in the community where they are located and where their
customers live. The Act is particularly concerned with investment loans for home purchase and
rehabilitation loans in older neighborhoods. The intent is to discourage "redlining" or the practice
of refusing to make loans for properties located in older or predominantly minority
neighborhoods. The CRA provides an opportunity for local developers and non-proﬁt agencies to
work with the banks and savings and loans to develop affordable housing and to maintain or
improve existing housing in older neighborhoods.

Until the early 1980s, the federal government provided most of the support for the creation and
maintenance of affordable housing, including tax incentives and direct funding of construction and
operating costs. The withdrawal of this support, coupled with a changing economic environment,
has severely reduced the availability of affordable housing. The absence of the federal government
and lack of history or experience of the state and local government and the private sector in
funding affordable housing has resulted in a confusion of roles and responsibilities. In order to
provide the housing needed by the low and middle income population, it will be necessary for the
county, cities, state and the private sector to create new working relationships if the needs for
ﬁnancing, construction or acquisition and maintenance of housing are to be met.


FAIR HOUSING
The goal of fair housing is to encourage freedom of choice in the sale or rental of dwellings. Fair
housing rights are established both through federal law (Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968)
and Washington State legislation (WAC 49.60.222 through 224). The private sector and public
sector housing agencies are very familiar with these principles as they apply to buyer/seller or



91                                                                              H OUSING E LEMENT
                                       CLARK2045
landlord/tenant relationships. Discrimination based on race, color, age, sex, religion and national
origin is prohibited.

In 1988, the Federal Fair Housing Act was amended in a manner that makes it evident that it is not
legal to deny persons with disabilities the opportunity to live in a community. The amendment also
makes it clear that persons may not be discriminated against on the basis of family status. The
Washington Housing Policy Act, adopted in 1993, reinforces these principles by prohibiting local
ordinances that treat households with disabilities differently from other households. For the
purpose of this 20-Year plan, written in 1993 and updated in 2002, low-income persons are not
considered a group protected under fair housing laws. If applied, income tests must be applied to
all groups (e.g., disabled, racial, national origin) equally.

Several of the groups speciﬁcally noted in fair housing laws are commonly referred to as "special
populations." Special populations include the physically disabled, mentally disabled, mentally ill,
homeless and other persons who may experience barriers to housing because of a disability or
condition. Special needs populations are among the most noticeable persons needing fair housing
protection. Fair housing, however, is a broader concept that attempts to protect all residents from
unfair or discriminatory treatment.

In the development of land use regulations, communities must examine whether the effect of a
regulation, action or policy is exclusionary. Local land use policies, regulations and actions must
not have the effect of excluding individuals from Clark County or cities within Clark County.
Persons should be able to ﬁnd a variety of housing opportunities.

The 20-Year Plan proposes that an essential element in the continued achievement of fair housing
is a land use regulatory approach that allows anyone seeking housing to take "managed risks". That
is, regulations should protect public health and safety, but not to the point that the regulations
have the effect of excluding populations from ﬁnding housing that they can afford. Fair housing
should not become a paternalistic approach to protection that eventually excludes the disabled,
elderly, or other individuals. The 20-Year Plan also works toward fair housing by using the
household, rather than the family, as the basic deﬁnition for an assemblage of persons in a dwelling
unit.

Household is a broader term that allows for non-nuclear families, unrelated individuals, domestic
partnerships, caregivers and other arrangements. A household orientation reﬂects the increasing
diversity of living arrangements in the county.

Incentives for fair housing and a greater awareness of how the principle serves to protect all
persons will be increasingly necessary in the future as Clark County's population grows and
diversiﬁes. Fair housing requires the attention of many segments of the community. Appropriate
land use practices are a necessary step. These practices must be reinforced by fair lending
practices, underwriting standards, appraisals, bonding and by other implementation policies and


H OUSING E LEMENT                                                                                     92
                                      CLARK2045
procedures that effectuate, on a daily basis, principles of fairness. Central to fairness is a clear
understanding of both the income characteristics of the community and the characteristics of
housing. Over time, the county's racial structure, household living arrangements, number of
special needs persons, etc. will change. There is a continuing need to educate government ofﬁcials
and residents to their individual rights and to the rights of others.


S P E C I AL N E E D S H O U S I N G
It is the intent of this plan to encourage self-determination and independence among individuals
with special needs. County and the cities policies, ordinances and codes should treat people with
special needs equivalent to the general population. Land use regulations should not discriminate
against these households. Land use regulations should be limited to the impact of the use upon the
landscape, without consideration of the circumstance of the persons in the household.

People with special needs, just like other segments of the population, want to locate across the
county, depending upon personal preferences and upon the locations of family and friends, health
care, support services and transit. Housing provided by both the public and private sectors will
allow the greatest range of locational choices. Special needs populations live throughout the
county at this time, even though they may be under served or be limited in their access to housing.
In the next 20 years, neighborhoods across the county should become accessible to special needs
individuals. There is a dual responsibility; neighborhoods must become more accepting of people
with special needs and people with special needs must become good neighbors in their community.

Just as people with special needs want to live in different neighborhoods, their speciﬁc housing
needs vary also. Not all disabled persons require housing adapted with rehabilitated kitchens,
bathrooms, etc. Not all persons require assistance from a caregiver. It is important that planners
have knowledge of the needs of different client groups and avoid generalizations. Providing for
people with special needs does not necessarily mean increased levels of social services or
infrastructure. It may mean cultivation of a greater awareness of the impact of regulations upon
these groups and encouragement of incentives to provide affordable, accessible housing.

The managed risk approach is applicable to all special populations and in particular to individuals
traditionally considered "undesirable" because of previous lodging in institutions or correctional
facilities. As these individuals rejoin the general public, the public must be protected, but in a
reasonable fashion that does not preclude the transition of people to an independent lifestyle.

The Clark County Consolidated Plan examines the needs of special populations in detail from a
short-term perspective. The Housing Element of the 20-Year Plan attempts to address needs from
a long-term perspective and to propose public and private sector responses to the needs.




93                                                                             H OUSING E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
N E I G H B O R H O O D C H A R AC T E R & V I T A L I T Y
Clark County's residential neighborhoods vary in size, density, housing type and amenities. The
character of a neighborhood, both its livability and identity, is closely associated with its design,
the characteristics of the residents and the services provided. Regardless of the character of the
neighborhood, residents generally want a feeling of comfort and security, privacy and a sense of
belonging. Neighborhood character is an important element of the Community Framework Plan and
is a central component of an approach that encourages a hierarchy of well-deﬁned places. Over
the next 20 years, preservation of existing neighborhoods will require a conscious
acknowledgment of the existing nature of the people, visual character and services. New
development in previously undeveloped areas should occur with an identiﬁable visual and service
character. Inﬁll development should occur with a visual and service character compatible with
existing development.

A population diverse in its age, ethnicity, income, household structure and size and mental and
physical abilities has the potential to create strong and vital neighborhoods. The contribution of
individuals, through their participation in public processes or through their daily lives in a
neighborhood, inﬂuences the character of a neighborhood. Acceptance and appreciation of
diverse individuals is a desirable value now and in the future.

This 20-Year plan intends to promote service delivery systems that are highly visible to users,
accessible and centrally located on a neighborhood district basis. A major objective of the 20-Year
Plan is to ensure that housing remains affordable for all income groups. One of the advantages of
the 20-Year Plan is the variety of housing options, which will be available for residents.


I N F IL L
In order to achieve the goals of the 20-Year Plan, Clark County and other jurisdictions must
encourage the use of inﬁll parcels for homes and also must ensure that development is compatible
with the surrounding neighborhood. Inﬁll is a term used to describe development of parcels that
was "passed over" in a ﬁrst phase of development. Some lots in the urban area were not developed
because they continued in rural uses such as horse lots, orchards, etc. In some cases, there was
insufﬁcient demand for the land or people chose not to develop right away. The physical
development constraints of some parcels, such as drainage ways, steep slopes, etc. may also lead
to them being "passed over." The parcels are now surrounded by development, which may be
residential, commercial or industrial in nature. In some areas, inﬁll will mean mixing housing with
commercial development and may require special consideration of physical constraints, existing
infrastructure and adjacent land use.

Inﬁll development is central to achieving target densities and to reducing sprawl. Targeted inﬁll
development sites can also serve to focus public investment in areas, which have existing urban
development but need additional infrastructure to support increased densities. This type of inﬁll


H OUSING E LEMENT                                                                                 94
                                      CLARK2045
development could include co-locating employment centers with housing, thereby reducing
vehicle miles traveled, lessening congestion and reducing the overall costs for infrastructure.


A C C E S S O R Y U N IT S
Accessory units are another method for increasing density in a manner that may be affordable.
Accessory housing units are complete living quarters constructed within an existing single family
lot. They occur through conversion of an attic, a basement, a garage or other space. They are
always secondary in size to the existing dwelling, usually less than 1,000 square feet. Common
names for these units include granny ﬂats, mother-in-law apartments and bachelor units. Some
communities allow accessory units to be free standing. Freestanding units are generally called
echo units or accessory cottages. Accessory units combine the advantages of small size,
maximizing use of existing dwellings and income for homeowners as advantages. Clark County has
had an Accessory Dwelling Unit ordinance in effect since 1992.


V A R I E T Y IN N E I GH B O R H O O D S
In order to implement the 20-Year Plan in a manner that preserves and enhances neighborhoods
while also maintaining identity and livability, Clark County and local jurisdictions will need to
identify the features that make an attractive residential development and ensure that future
development include these features. Over time, greater breadth and variety in neighborhood
design should be allowed. The ﬂexibility should also be accompanied by consistency and
predictability in the development process. A major objective of the 20-Year Plan is to ensure that
housing remains affordable for all income groups. One of the advantages of the 20-Year Plan is the
variety of housing options, which will be available for residents. These will include single-family
homes on a variety of lot sizes, as well as multi-family homes (apartments, condominiums, town
houses) and mobile homes. This variety is expected to make it easier for the home building
community to develop housing in a range of prices affordable and attractive to all county
residents.


F A I R S H AR E
The state GMA directs all communities to formulate policies that allow accommodation of their
"fair share" of housing types and income groups. The growth management act does not explicitly
require a numerical approach to fair share. In general, the fair share process should provide low
and moderate income housing targets for cities, urban growth areas and county rural areas that
are achievable in a progressive manner over the 20-year planning period. The allocation process
should identify programs and ﬁnance mechanisms that will result in the construction and
rehabilitation of housing so that the targets are meaningful. Noting the complexity of the task,
Clark County determined that preparation of a fair share allocation is a complex process in and of
itself and requires a participatory process supported by thorough technical analysis. Formulation



95                                                                             H OUSING E LEMENT
                                       CLARK2045
of a fair share approach is supported by this plan and is an implementation technique requiring
immediate funding and analysis.

The fair share principle has a close relationship to the question of neighborhood character. In
accordance with the fair share concept, a community may need to provide for income groups and
housing types that are not part of its traditional character. In addition, existing neighborhoods may
experience a change in character in order to provide housing for persons of higher or lower
income than currently exist. These changes are expected to occur throughout Clark County in a
progressive manner. Achievement of a fair share concept will require adequate ﬁnancing,
community design, public involvement and attention to the impact of change upon residents of an
area.


R E H A B I L IT A T I O N & P R E S E R V A T I ON
The Framework Plan concept, with its emphasis on a hierarchy of identiﬁable places, supports the
preservation and rehabilitation of existing structures. Because existing structures provide much of
the character of places, their preservation into the future will provide a basis for deﬁnition of
community character. Existing structures also provide an opportunity for increased residential
density with minimal community disruption when accessory units are allowed within structures
and on existing lots. In addition, accessory units and existing houses are often among the most
affordable units in the real estate market. Rehabilitation of existing structures also reﬂects an
environmentally conscious approach to neighborhoods with an orientation toward stewardship
and reuse of existing resources.

The Community Framework Plan, with its emphasis on increased density in urban areas also
acknowledges that over time existing structures may be replaced with higher density structures,
mixed uses or other innovations in land use. In concept, the removal of a housing unit in residential
areas either through demolition or conversion to another use should be accompanied by the
replacement of a residential use in the same neighborhood district. The intent of this plan is to
place a priority upon rehabilitation and preservation of structures, while acknowledging that over
time not all structures can or should be retained. In every case, all costs of rehabilitation, including
life cycle costs and potential tax credits, must be considered.

Housing rehabilitation must be integrated with a concern for the persons in a structure and must
respond to their social and service needs. Rehabilitated strategies must be tailored to the
character of the area served. Rehabilitated buildings should be safe and habitable, but should not
be required to meet the same codes as new construction.

Rehabilitation strategies speciﬁcally tailored to the condition of the neighborhood, integrating
physical, demographic and economic needs provide an opportunity to re-use existing housing
stock. Not only is this wise conservation of natural, human and physical/cultural resources, it also
preserves the units most likely to be affordable to low and moderate income persons. As a
technique to provide affordability, rehabilitation cannot be overlooked or underappreciated.


H OUSING E LEMENT                                                                                    96
                                      CLARK2045
It is the intent of this Chapter to advocate for safe and habitable housing for all Clark County
residents. In order to accomplish this aim and also to preserve affordability, it is essential that
building codes allow a tiered approach to acceptable building condition. The cost of rehabilitating
structures to the same standards as new construction often is prohibitive, dissuades owners from
making improvements and increases the cost of dwellings. Provision also should be made for
certiﬁed historic preservation and restoration projects, allowing rehabilitation to safe and
habitable levels without meeting the same codes as non-historic rehabilitation or new
construction. Achievement of this objective may require a statewide approach to revision of codes
and a concerted effort on the part of both the public sector (including planners and building
ofﬁcials) and the private sector. Currently there is a low-income home owner rehabilitation
program funded with CDBG in Clark County.


A F F O R DA B I L I T Y
The concern for housing affordability is a nationwide issue. Much of Clark County's growth in the
last 20 years can be attributed to its affordability compared to the surrounding region. Clark
County and city ofﬁcials see maintenance of affordability into the future as an important
objective. The 20-Year Plan, as a government document, provides an opportunity to focus on the
leadership role that local government can take to work cooperatively with all segments of the
community in order to increase affordability within the context of protecting public health, safety
and welfare. Provision of affordable housing for the individual should not come about at the cost
of the community as a whole. The interests of the community as a whole, however, include the
need to provide housing which is affordable for individuals.

Consumer expectations also play an important role in affordability. Consumers in all income
ranges exhibit a trend toward increasing expectations for size and amenities. These add to the cost
of housing. For most consumers, a house is their single most signiﬁcant ﬁnancial investment.
Houses are more than a place to live, they impose a signiﬁcant ﬁnancial responsibility upon owners
and offer and important windfall proﬁt opportunity. In the 1980s and 1990s, homeowners have
become increasingly protective of the value, both real and perceived, of their homes. This is often
exhibited as NIMBYism (Not In My Back Yard) where property owners strenuously object to the
introduction of new housing that differs from existing housing in type or value. Many of these
objections are based in the fear of people of differing incomes, race, age, or ethnicity and their
perceived impacts on the value of property. NIMBYism inﬂuences housing affordability and it
results in excessive delays in permit review processes or effectively excludes legitimate housing
types or income groups from neighborhoods. In the planning process, this intolerance must not be
underestimated but must be recognized and planned for in education programs, public hearing
processes and in programs that attempt to create a sense of community that extends beyond the
ﬁnancial commitment of a house purchase.

Just as supply and demand interact to inﬂuence cost, housing price and local wages interact to
inﬂuence affordability. A dual effort to increase local wages while also retaining moderately priced



97                                                                             H OUSING E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
housing, will keep housing affordable to more of the population. Housing affordability is a
relationship between an individual's income and the price of housing.

From the perspective of community planning, it is desirable to provide both jobs and housing
within a community for the beneﬁt of individuals and the community tax base. The relationship of
jobs and housing is described in two ways:

   •   The wage/housing balance is the relationship between the wages earned by people in the
       community and the housing price. Ideally, there is a sufﬁcient number of housing units
       affordable to all levels of wage earners and
   •   The jobs/housing balance is the relationship between the location of jobs and the location
       of housing. Ideally, jobs are created in locations that are convenient to housing.

In both relationships, the planning objective is to create opportunities so people who want to live
close to work may do so. There is no requirement (or assurance) that the people working a
particular job will live in the proximal housing, or vice versa. The two principles may be applied
separately or together when looking at a community's affordability strategy. The intent of the
Housing Element is to assure that communities investigate both relationships and attempt to
achieve both a jobs/housing and wage/housing balance within their urban area.

Traditionally, planners have looked at a jobs/housing balance and have tried to promote housing
opportunities in locations close to the workplace. This helps community diversity and reduces
commute trips. Now with the interest in affordability, communities are also looking at
wage/housing balances, trying to promote availability of housing that workers can afford close to
their jobs.

Chapter 9 Economic Development Element of the 20-Year Plan includes general policies and
strategies and also includes strategies to improve wages. Many of the Housing Element's programs
and regulations provide tools to address the housing affordability issue. The local plans will
address the location issue and the wage/housing issue through their statements on the need for
affordable housing.


I N C L U S I O N AR Y Z O N I N G
An innovative tool to provide affordable housing is a voluntary inclusionary zoning program. A
voluntary inclusionary program would be based on incentives for developers to build a percentage
(usually 10 - 15%) of housing in their subdivision as affordable. The units would be smaller, simpler
homes in a compatible design with the rest of the subdivision. In exchange for the affordable units,
developers would be given incentives that would make it proﬁtable for them, such as density
incentives, expedited review, or impact fee waivers.

Inclusionary zoning does several things. It can integrate low and moderate income housing units
into market rate subdivisions and avoid concentrations of low-income housing into one
neighborhood. Increased density in some neighborhoods can encourage the viability of transit.

H OUSING E LEMENT                                                                                 98
                                       CLARK2045
Employers located in suburban communities beneﬁt as well by having an accessible low and
moderate-income workforce.

Neighborhood character is important to preserve and inclusionary zoning allows this to happen by
giving the design control to the developer. Unlike inﬁll, the affordable units are part of the
subdivision plan and can be designed to be similar to their surrounding homes. This allows a
community to retain its character while accommodating affordable housing. Inclusionary zoning
can be an important tool to provide affordable housing to the growing number of households in
Clark County that are priced out of the market. Homeownership prices have been escalating in the
county, which has priced many working families out of homeownership.

Inclusionary zoning can provide homeownership opportunities for those families by making it
proﬁtable for developers to build homes that those families can afford. Inclusionary zoning,
through partnerships with non-proﬁts and public agencies, can also provide affordable rental
opportunities in new subdivisions.

Several other tools are available to the public sector to help inﬂuence the availability of affordable
housing, such as publicly subsidized rental housing and community land trusts to foster a
permanent inventory of affordable housing. Clark County has invested in the Southwest
Washington Community Land Trust.


F I N A N C IN G A F F O R D A B L E H O U S IN G
Finance of housing and in particular affordable housing is a specialized market niche that requires
the cooperation of land developers, builders, government and lenders. Finance plays a vital role in
the ﬁnal cost of housing and its associated infrastructure. The intent of this plan is to both identify
and advocate for ﬁnance mechanisms for housing and associated infrastructure that are stable.
Both housing and infrastructure improvements are long-term investments. Mechanisms that are
predictable over time may stabilize risk and increase the potential for project funding. This does
not imply that new ﬁnance mechanisms and institutional structures will not or should not arise
over time, or that interim ﬁnance mechanisms are not appropriate. Rather a long-term view of
ﬁnance mechanisms is necessary. In the last twenty years, the nation's ﬁnancial institutions,
lending systems and local taxing mechanisms have undergone radical change. More change should
be expected in the next twenty years.

Another important component of this plan is the recognition that the public, not-for- proﬁt and
private ﬁnance sectors all play an important role in housing ﬁnance. A healthy and complete
housing ﬁnance system will involve the participation of all three sectors in a manner that most
appropriately reﬂects public purpose, capital requirements, costs, interest rates and other
inﬂuences on the ﬁnancial markets. Public sector ﬁnancing of housing is traditionally identiﬁed
with housing for the lowest income groups and involves the deepest direct subsidies. The public
sector is also involved in middle and high-income subsidies to housing through tax policies. The
public sector's role is changing as the need for partnership approaches to ﬁnance emerges.


99                                                                               H OUSING E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
The not-for-proﬁt sector is an emerging ﬁnance sector. Working with private sector partners, the
nonproﬁt sector can access public funds in order to meet a public purpose while the private sector
partner can offer the deep ﬁnancial backing required to develop housing. The Vancouver Housing
Authority has partnered in this way to develop eleven properties that use bond ﬁnancing to
develop affordable housing for households at or below 80% of area median income. Two of the
developments include tax credit equity, allowing the rents to be affordable to households at or
below 60% of area median income. These properties will remain a community asset to be used for
future affordable housing needs.

Private sector ﬁnance is the mainstay of housing development. Increasingly, in order to meet the
needs of low and moderate income persons, the private ﬁnance institutions need the assistance of
the public and not-for-proﬁt sector. The private sector also has responsibilities to invest in
communities through the Community Reinvestment Act. CRA goals often give impetus both to
partnerships with the other sectors and to innovative ﬁnancing techniques.


H O U S I N G T Y P E S , H O U S I N G T E N U R E , S U F F I C I EN T L A N D & A L L
INCOME GROUPS
The Growth Management Act is clear in its direction that comprehensive plans are to provide
sufﬁcient land and opportunities for a variety of housing types, ranging from site built to offsite
manufactured. It is clear in its direction that special needs housing must be accommodated within
the community. It is also clear that the housing and land use elements of local plans must be
structured in a manner that makes it possible for persons of all income groups to have a degree of
choice in their geographic search for housing. Sufﬁcient land must be available for housing so that
all income groups can exercise a choice to live in a community.

The Land Use Element, Chapter 1 of the 20-Year Plan provides, in both policy and mapped form, is
a vision of the location of land uses in the future. The Land Use Element contains areas planned for
residential, commercial, industrial, forest, agricultural, recreation and other land uses. The
residential plan identiﬁes areas for single and multiple family uses at a variety of densities. It
includes mixed-use areas where combinations of commercial, institutional and residential uses are
allowed. It also includes agricultural and forest areas where residential uses are allowed at a low
density. The Land Use Element speciﬁes target densities for the uses.

GOALS & POLICIES
Clark County has developed general goals and policies it will use to direct housing development.
Climate-related goals and policies within this element are noted as helping achieve greenhouse
gas reduction [GHG], resilience [RES], or both [GHG, RES].

The Clark County Housing policies are as follows:




H OUSING E LEMENT                                                                              100
                                CLARK2045
2.1   C O U N T Y W I D E P L A N N IN G P OL I C I ES
      2.1.0     The county and each municipality shall prepare an inventory and analysis of
                existing and projected housing. [RES]

      2.1.1     The Comprehensive Plan of the county and each municipality shall identify
                sufficient land for housing, including, but not limited to, government-assisted
                housing, housing for moderate, low, very low, and extremely low-income
                households, manufactured housing, multifamily housing, and group homes,
                foster care facilities, emergency housing, emergency shelters, and permanent
                supportive housing. All jurisdictions will cooperate to plan for a "fair share" of
                the region's affordable housing needs and housing for special needs
                population, consistent with their HAPT allocation [RES]

      2.1.2     Link economic development and housing strategies to achieve parity
                between job development and housing affordability. [RES]

      2.1.3     Link transportation and housing strategies to assure reasonable access to
                multi-modal transportation systems and to encourage housing
                opportunities in locations that will support the development of public
                transportation. [GHG, RES]

      2.1.4     Link housing strategies with the locations of work sites and jobs. [GHG,
                RES]

      2.1.5     Link housing strategies with the availability of public facilities and public
                services. [GHG,RES]

      2.1.6     Encourage inﬁll housing within cities and towns and urban growth areas.
                [GHG, RES]

      2.1.7     Encourage flexible and cost efficient land use regulations that plan for and
                accommodate housing for all economic segments of the population. [RES]

      2.1.8     Clark County and each municipality shall adopt incentives, strategies, actions,
                regulations, and consider funding tools that increase the supply of housing for
                households with extremely low-, very low- and low-incomes and with special
                needs by private or public developers. [RES]

      2.1.9     Clark County and each municipality shall implement strategies that address
                cost barriers to housing affordability, including, but not limited to:
                •   updating development standards and regulations;
                •   shortening permit timelines;
                •   implementing online permitting;
                •   optimizing residential densities;

101                                                                         H OUSING E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
                      •   reducing parking requirements;
                      •   developing programs, policies, partnerships, and incentives to decrease
                          costs to build and preserve affordable housing;
                      •   increasing homeownership opportunities in the 80% to 100% AMI by
                          waiving permit fees for qualifying buyers that hold the house for a 5-
                          year period;
                      •   using pre-approved plans to reduce review time;
                      •   implementing outcome based approvals for site development;
                      •   developing interagency agreements to lower the barriers to
                          homeownership. [RES]
          2.1.10      Identify and begin to undo local policies and regulations that result in racially
                      disparate impacts, displacement, and exclusion in housing including zoning
                      that may have a discriminatory effect and areas of disinvestment and
                      infrastructure availability. [RES]

          2.1.11 Promote homeownership opportunities for low-income and moderate-income
                     families and individuals while recognizing historic inequities in access to
                     homeownership opportunities for communities and households of Black,
                     Indigenous and People of Color (BIPOC groups). [RES]

          2.1.12      Plan for and provide housing based on the allocation and at the income levels
                      in the Housing for All Planning Tool (HAPT) in Appendix J. [RES]


C O U N T Y 20-Y E AR P L A N N I N G P O L I C I E S

GOAL:
Provide for diversity in the type, density, location and aﬀordability of housing
throughout the county and its cities. Encourage and support equal access to housing for
rental and homeowners and protect public health and safety. [RES]

2.2       Policies:

          2.2.1       Ensure that implementation measures recognize variety of household
                      structures. [RES]

          2.2.2       Encourage a variety of housing types and densities, including mixed-use
                      centers, services and amenities. [RES]

          2.2.3       Clark County shall create a voluntary inclusionary zoning program in
                      residential and mixed-use zones with bonus incentives strategies. A
                      demonstration project should be created to illustrate proﬁtability to
                      ﬁnance institutions and developers and to illustrate the effectiveness of the
                      policy to the public. [RES]


H OUSING E LEMENT                                                                                  102
                                   CLARK2045
         2.2.4      Develop a fair share housing allocation that provides low- and moderate-
                    income housing targets for cities and urban growth areas. The program
                    should include a housing inventory, incentives and ﬁnancing mechanisms.
                    [RES]

         2.2.5      Implement innovative zoning techniques that encourages investment in
                    new development and discourages displacement, and exclusionary housing.
                    [RES]

         2.2.6      Encourage a variety of housing types and densities in residential
                    neighborhoods. [RES]

         2.2.7      Encourage inﬁll as a development and redevelopment concept with
                    provisions that prevent or mitigate displacement and encourage affordable
                    housing. [GHG, RES]

         2.2.8      Assure that policies, codes and ordinances promote neighborhood designs
                    that are pedestrian and transit friendly and discourage reliance upon the
                    automobile. [GHG, RES]

         2.2.9      The county should take appropriate action to encourage the preservation
                    and expansion of the current stock of federally subsidized affordable
                    housing. [RES]

         2.2.10     Establish housing production targets based on the housing allocation
                    identiﬁed in the Housing for All Planning Tool and conduct bi-annual
                    reviews of the county’s progress towards those targets. The review should
                    use the data provided in RCW36.70A.610 together with county permitting
                    and development data, and should identify actions the county may take
                    when housing production is not keeping pace with identiﬁed needs. If the
                    county is not making adequate progress towards its housing production
                    goals, or identiﬁed needs, or identiﬁed housing gaps are not improving, the
                    county shall evaluate potential barriers to housing production and consider
                    appropriate changes to county policies, regulations, incentives, fees,
                    permitting processes or other actions within the county’s authority. [RES]

GOAL:
Plan for increasing housing needs of low-income and special needs households. [RES]

2.3      Policies

         2.3.1      Assure that codes and ordinances allow for a continuum of care and housing
                    opportunities for special needs populations, such as emergency housing,
                    permanent supportive housing, transitional housing, extensive support,
                    minimal support, independent living, family based living, or institutions. [RES]

103                                                                           H OUSING E LEMENT
                                    CLARK2045
          2.3.2      Clark County or local jurisdictions shall plan for low-income and special
                     needs housing that is well served by public transit. [GHG, RES]

          2.3.3      Ordinances shall allow for housing for special needs populations as
                     permitted/conditional uses, by basing siting decisions on the impact of the
                     use upon the landscape, not on the circumstances of the occupants. [RES]

          2.3.4      Building and site plan codes shall encourage the development,
                     rehabilitation and adaptation of housing that responds to the physical
                     needs of special populations. [RES]

          2.3.5      Encourage both the public and private sector (including ﬁnancial
                     institutions) to invest in the creation of special needs housing. [RES]

          2.3.6      Continue to coordinate the development of special needs housing with
                     social service providers and with public agencies that provide services and
                     capital. [RES]

          2.3.7      Encourage provision of very low and low income housing through the use of
                     document recording fees dedicated to affordable housing. [RES]

          2.3.8      Ensure housing policies, codes and regulations encourage the development
                     of units for moderate, low, very low, and extremely low-income households.
                     [RES]

          2.3.9      Assure that codes and ordinances promote a variety of residential densities
                     and housing types, and encourages preservation of existing housing stock.
                     [RES]

          2.3.10     Establish anti-displacement policies, with consideration given to the
                     preservation of historical and cultural communities as well as investments
                     in low, very low, extremely low, and moderate-income housing. [RES]

GOAL:
Provide assistance for maintenance and rehabilitation of housing for Clark County
residents. [GHG, RES]

2.4       Policies

          2.4.1      Encourage programs that address building deterioration, infrastructure
                     gaps and disinvestment while also mitigating for displacement risks.
                     Prioritize programs in overburdened communities. [RES]

          2.4.2      Work with building ofﬁcials to encourage rehabilitation that provide for
                     safe and sanitary housing. [GHG, RES]



H OUSING E LEMENT                                                                              104
                                   CLARK2045
         2.4.3      Encourage voluntary housing rehabilitation programs. [GHG,RES]

         2.4.4      In areas where housing is rated as fair or below by the local assessor, focus
                    public investment on infrastructure surrounding the dwelling as well as
                    rehabilitation efforts and on preventing displacement. [GHG ,RES]

         2.4.5      Maintain the housing stock by rehabilitating homes rated as fair or below by
                    the local assessor. [GHG, RES]

         2.4.6      Enhance the safety of housing by reducing the lead-based paint hazard.
                    [RES]

         2.4.7      Encourage the creation of housing that is energy efﬁcient, resource
                    efﬁcient and has high indoor air quality. [GHG, RES]

GOAL:
Promote an active role in aﬀordable housing using a combination of regulatory,
partnership and ﬁnance techniques. [RES]

2.5      Policies

         2.5.1      Ensure that policies, codes and regulations, including public development
                    covenants, provide the opportunity to site affordable housing types, in
                    particular off-site manufactured homes and accessory units. [RES]

         2.5.2      Enhance provision of affordable housing for persons with incomes less than
                    30 percent of the median family income by using available federal and state
                    programs and by promoting private/public partnerships which focus on this
                    affordability range. [RES]

         2.5.3      Enhance provision of affordable housing through the development of at
                    least one and preferably more than one, private/not for proﬁt/government
                    partnership with the purpose of creating housing priced for persons with
                    incomes between 30 and 90 percent of the median family income. [RES]

         2.5.4      Establish a Housing Commission composed of residents and
                    representatives with diverse housing experiences and other stakeholders.
                    [RES]

GOAL:
Establish a secure funding mechanism to support development of aﬀordable housing.
Coordinate and concentrate public expenditures to make positive and visible impacts
on targeted neighborhoods. [RES]




105                                                                          H OUSING E LEMENT
                                   CLARK2045
2.6      Policies

         2.6.1      Assess the impacts of fee waivers, exemptions and other deductions or
                    exclusions on the housing needs continuum. [RES]

         2.6.2      Target the work of housing partnerships (private, not for proﬁt or proﬁt) to
                    various income levels, to encourage rental and home ownership
                    opportunities. [RES]

         2.6.3      Encourage and stimulate ﬁnancing for affordable housing including
                    innovative, single room occupancy. [RES]

GOAL:
Support diversity in the mix of housing types in the community, while improving home
ownership tenure. [RES]

2.7      Policies

         2.7.1      Provide opportunities for new development types to occur. Strategies to
                    achieve these opportunities include but are not limited to:

                    •   Minimum density for single family and multi-family.
                    •   Provisions for Accessory Dwelling Units.
                    •   Provision for duplexes, triplexes, quadplexes, and cottages in single
                        family.
                    •   Provisions for townhouses/row houses.
                    •   Allowance of manufactured home parks.
                    •   Provision for diversiﬁed single-family and middle housing types
                        throughout low-density zones.
                    •   Recognition of the ﬂexibility allowed in housing types as part of a Mixed
                        Use Development (e.g. living units above commercial areas).
                    •   Recognition of Assisted Living Units as a housing type.
                    •   Provision for diversiﬁed housing types allowed as part of a mixed use
                        development.
                    •   Recognition of Senior Housing Units as a housing type. [RES]

         2.7.2      Consider the dislocation impacts of programs that promote conversion of
                    units from rentals to owner occupied. [RES]

         2.7.3      Encourage housing that is created using the principles of Universal Design.
                    [RES]




H OUSING E LEMENT                                                                           106
                                      CLARK2045
GOAL:
Plan for and support diverse, aﬀordable, climate-resilient housing options throughout
the county. Encourage and support equal access to housing for renters, homeowners,
and people without stable shelter to protect public health and safety. [RES]

2.8          Policies

             2.8.1      Ensure that policies, codes, regulations, and practices increase and protect
                        access to safe, affordable housing, especially in overburdened communities.
                        Access to safe, stable housing provides protection during extreme weather
                        events, while affordable housing leaves residents more resources to spend
                        on resilience-building essentials such as air conditioning, air puriﬁcation,
                        food, and health care. [RES]

             2.8.2      All Housing Element policies are also considered Climate Element
                        resilience policies. [RES]

GOAL:
Prevent discrimination, address displacement, and mitigate past harm in the
development and maintenance of housing. [RES]

2.9 Policies

             2.9.1      Collaborate with community leaders, organizations, non-proﬁts, and
                        businesses to help vulnerable groups obtain and maintain housing. [RES]

             2.9.2      Support resident ownership and nonproﬁt ownership of manufactured
                        home parks. Develop and apply an overlay zone for existing and new
                        manufactured home parks that supports continued manufactured home
                        park use and limits redevelopment to other uses. Evaluate options
                        for enhanced notiﬁcation and relocation assistance in the event of park
                        closures. [RES]

             2.9.3      Evaluate the potential for displacement on lands proposed for rezone or
                        redevelopment.[RES]


STRATEGIES
The following strategies are proposed as a means to achieve the goals and policies of the Housing
Element. These are a range of strategies that the county is considering and some of these
strategies may be implemented over time.

      •   Develop a program to assist municipalities in accommodating diverse households.



107                                                                            H OUSING E LEMENT
                                     CLARK2045
   •   Maintain a tenant/landlord handbook to focus on tenant/landlord rights and
       responsibilities as well as fair housing legislation.
   •   Provide targeted information regarding fair housing such as booths at public events, web
       site and a more active role in support of fair housing regulations.
   •   Work with ﬁnancial institutions, not for proﬁts and the public sector to create mechanisms
       such as reverse mortgage programs, loan pools, housing trust funds, local funding and
       other tools to ﬁnance rehabilitation and construction of affordable housing.
   •   The county supports the extension of contracts for federally subsidized affordable housing
       that are up for renewal.
   •   The county supports the purchase of expired federally subsidized affordable housing by
       non-proﬁts or the Vancouver Housing Authority in order to preserve the affordability of
       the housing.
   •   Maintain an outreach/education program to explain all aspects of home ownership and
       tenancy including maintenance, repair, landscaping, credit, prevention of discrimination
       and predatory lending.
   •   Continue to enhance partnerships between public and private sector interests to work
       with Home Investment Partnership, state agencies, ﬁnancial institutions, builders, etc., to
       develop housing appropriate for all groups along the housing continuum.
   •   Promote affordable housing demonstration projects at a variety of densities and
       incorporating a variety of housing types such as elderly housing, smaller cottage one-story
       housing in order to illustrate what can be accomplished using local builders, ﬁnancing, etc.
   •   Promote employer sponsored homeowner programs.
   •   Provide information to the lending community regarding the planning process and its
       impact on the development process.
   •   Encourage the use of low income tax credits and bond ﬁnancing for equity in construction
       ﬁnancing.
   •   Encourage the development of custom lending targeted for difﬁcult to ﬁnance projects.
   •   Develop ﬁnance mechanisms to preserve and rehabilitate small apartment complexes (8-
       20 units).
   •   Enhance the local (nonfederal) renewable housing fund, such as 2060, for people with low
       incomes and special needs. Resources for the fund might be the result of bond issues,
       mileage, existing revenue or reallocation of the real estate excise tax (REET).
   •   Promote the facilitation of low-income housing projects through the use of the
       Development Coordinator. Provide guidance for these projects on process, available
       options and compliance with state and local codes.
   •   Develop a voluntary inclusionary zoning program.
   •   Develop affordable housing program to address the impacts of mobile home park
       conversion on residents.
   •   Encourage the preservation and expansion of rental housing for seniors with incomes
       below 60 percent (establisher federal guidelines) of the area’s median income.
   •   Encourage weatherization of homes to reduce energy costs. Provide information,
       education and assistance to moderate income households who do not qualify for the


H OUSING E LEMENT                                                                             108
                                    CLARK2045
      federal weatherization assistance program but cannot afford the initial weatherization
      investment.
  •   Develop a Clark County Universal Design Information Guide to assist homeowners in
      increasing the ease and ﬂexibility of their home.
  •   Consider incorporating universal design principles in Clark County’s building code review
      process.
  •   Encourage the development of accessory dwelling units (ADUs) – by exempting them from
      site plan review. Consider exempting ADUs from TIFs and PIFs.
  •   Consider more ﬂexibility in the creation of duplexes by allowing them in all single family
      zones.
  •   Encourage new developments of senior housing to be within a half-mile of transit, services
      and retail amenities.
  •   Consider cohousing to be developed in single family residential zones.
  •   Consider assisted living facilities in single-family residential zones as a conditional use.
  •   Consider developing a shared housing program.
  •   Partner with the Building Industry Association to provide a universal-designed home and
      information at the Clark County Parade of Homes.
  •   Consider zone changes to allow more areas to support diverse housing types, including
      small-lot single-family, multifamily, duplexes and accessory dwelling units.




109                                                                          H OUSING E LEMENT
CHAPTER
RURAL & NATURAL RESOURCE
ELEMENT
                           3
                                      CLARK2045

CHAPTER 3
Rural & Natural Resource Element

INTRODUCTION
Clark County’s rural and resource areas are characterized by forests, large and small scale farms,
rivers and streams that provide quality habitat for ﬁsh and wildlife and a wide variety of homes
found in Rural Centers and scattered on lots in a broad range of sizes. Many rural residential
communities are focused in areas with historic roots of large-scale commercial forestry, farming
and mining. Also, rural residential communities are focused on scenic resources such as rivers and
views or to lifestyle activities such as the keeping of horses.

The soils and terrain in the rural and resource areas create signiﬁcant environmentally sensitive
areas, such as steep, erodible slopes, wetlands and ground water recharge areas. Maintenance of
tree cover, natural vegetation and wetlands are critical to prevention of erosion, ﬂooding, property
and habitat damage, the continued functioning of the ecosystem and preservation of rural
character.

GROWTH MANAGEMENT ACT
Statewide planning goals were adopted in 1990 as part of the Growth Management Act (GMA) to
guide development and adoption of comprehensive plans and development regulations. A basic
principle of the GMA is that growth should ﬁrst be directed to areas already characterized by
growth and where growth can be supported with adequate urban facilities and services. By
directing development to areas where facilities are currently provided or can be efﬁciently
provided in the future, the county can better utilize limited resources in both rural and urban
areas. Additionally, by generally directing growth to such areas, Clark County can ensure that a
distinct option for rural living will be available for generations to come. This Chapter satisﬁes the
GMA’s mandatory Rural Element (RCW 36.70A.070 (5)) by:

      designating rural lands “lands that are not designated for urban growth, agriculture, forest
       or mineral resources”;
      providing a projected 20-year population growth;
      identifying rural government services;
      providing a variety of densities for residential, commercial and industrial land uses; and,
      addressing rural character of such lands, which can include critical areas as well as small-
       scale farm and forestry activities.




111                                                      R URAL & N ATURAL R ESOURCE E LEMENT
                                       CLARK2045
This Chapter also satisﬁes the GMA’s Goal 8 to maintain and enhance natural resource-based
industries and designated resource lands (RCW36.70A.020 (8)).

RCW 36.70A.070 outlines GMA climate change and resiliency requirements. Chapter 14 –
Climate Element contains most climate change and resilience policies in the Comprehensive Plan,
but other elements also include climate policies. Climate-related goals and policies within this
element are noted in the goals and policies section of this chapter. See Chapter 14 for a
comprehensive discussion of climate policies, some of which overlap with rural and natural
resource lands.

CLARK COUNTY’S RURAL COMMUNITIES
Clark County’s rural area contains predominately low-density residential development, farms,
forests, watersheds crucial to ﬁsheries and ﬂood control, mining areas, small rural commercial
centers, historic sites and buildings, archaeological sites and regionally important recreation
areas. Designation and conservation of a rural area maintains rural community character as a
valued part of the county’s diversity. It also provides choices in living environments, maintains a
link to Clark County’s heritage, allows small-scale farming and forestry and helps protect
environmental quality and sensitive resources.

As deﬁned by WAC 365-196-210(47), rural lands are those areas which lie outside of urban
growth areas and do not include designated long-term resource lands (agriculture, forest or
mineral resources). In Clark County, the rural area represents a lifestyle based on historical
development patterns and resource-based industries such as commercial forestry, Christmas
trees, dairies, berry farming, orchards and mining. Today much of the county’s rural lands include a
mix of resource, small commercial, recreational and residential uses.

No single attribute describes the rural landscape. Instead combinations of characteristics which
are found in rural settings impart the sense of what we commonly describe as rural. These factors
are cumulative in nature and the more of these factors that are present inﬂuence feelings of
whether a particular area is rural. In many cases these characteristics are subjective and
frequently not all of them are found in each area. When describing rural conditions the public will
often describe these areas in terms of a certain lifestyle. The factors listed below are those that
usually describe "rural character."

   •   the presence of large lots;
   •   limited public services present (water, sewer, police, ﬁre, roads, etc.);
   •   different expectations of levels of services provided;
   •   small scale resource activity;
   •   undeveloped nature of the landscape;
   •   wildlife and natural conditions predominate;
   •   closer relationship between nature and residents;
   •   personal open space;



R URAL & N ATURAL R ESOURCE E LEMENT                                                             112
                                      CLARK2045
   •   a sense of separation from intense human activity;
   •   a sense of self sufﬁciency; and
   •   rural commercial supporting rural area population.

Planning for rural lands in Clark County is important for the following reasons:

   •   to maintain a rural character;
   •   to recognize their location at the urban fringe, where they are susceptible to sprawl
       development which can overwhelm the existing character, infrastructure and way of life;
   •   to serve as transition areas between urban and resource uses because urban and resource
       uses are dependent on each other, but are not always compatible;
   •   to provide services and goods that support resource activities;
   •   to supply nearby urban residents with locally harvested resource products which are fresh
       and often less costly;
   •   to allow the efﬁcient provision of public facilities and services by clearly delineating
       between urban and rural uses so that growth is directed to more compact urban centers;
   •   to add an important dimension to the quality of life through the existence of rural lands,
       open space and natural or critical areas;
   •   to provide for the planned future expansion of urban uses, if necessary or needed, in the
       rural lands that border designated urban areas; and,
   •   to protect and enhance streams and riparian habitat necessary for sustaining healthy
       populations of salmonids.

The Rural and Natural Resource Element is an integral part of the county’s 20-Year Plan. This
element concentrates on how future land use needs within rural and resource lands will be met
and the methodology used to designate resource lands. This element emphasizes how rural and
resource lands should be used in the future, supporting the ongoing and future resource activities
(farming, forestry and mineral extraction) and encouraging such activities on a smaller scale in the
rural non-resource lands. Together, this element in concert with the rest of the 20-Year Plan
supports the long-range vision for Clark County.


R U R A L P O P U L AT I O N G R O W T H
The Rural Area is not expected to accommodate large amounts of growth, but allows for low-
density residential development and other traditional rural uses. The GMA requires that rural
development be contained and controlled to ensure the protection of rural character, assure the
visual compatibility of rural development with the surrounding rural area, protect environmentally
sensitive areas and habitat and protect against conﬂicts with natural resource uses such as
farming, forestry and mining. As of 2023, 69,284 people resided within the rural and resource
lands, or those areas outside of the urban growth areas.




113                                                     R URAL & N ATURAL R ESOURCE E LEMENT
                                        CLARK2045
It is anticipated that 9,538 people or 5 percent of the new growth will be accommodated in the
rural area. The total county population projection (including urban and rural areas) over the next
20 years is approximately 718,154 persons.


RURAL LAND DISTRIBUTION
Clark County is approximately 420,000 acres in size, of which approximately 320,000 acres are
outside the Urban Growth Area. The predominate land uses outside the Urban Growth Area
include forest, agriculture and single family residential development. Table 3.1 illustrates the
distribution of land uses based on 1994, 2004, 2016, and 2025 zoning categories throughout the
rural and resource lands.

Table 3.1 Acreage Totals Based on 1994, 2007, 2016 and 2025 Zoning Categories
 Zoning                 Acres 1994    Acres 2007       Acres 2016      Acres 2025
 R-5, R-10, R-20            105,102        100,117         102,213         102,124
 AG-20, AG/WL                39,802         35,760          37,460          37,045
 FR-40, FR-80               157,516        158,068         158,099         158,094



R U R A L C O M M E R C I A L / I N D U S T R IA L U S E S
Existing commercial and industrial uses are located within the rural and resource areas of Clark
County. The majority of existing commercial uses can be found within Rural Centers (275 acres),
although there is some commercial use outside these centers (359 acres). Currently, the majority
of industrial land is found within the cities or the proposed urban growth areas. Industrial land
within the rural area is limited to the Brush Prairie area and Chelatchie Prairie, the site of the
abandoned sawmill.

Commercial and industrial lands, especially regarding the relationship with employment, are
discussed in more detail in Chapter 1, Land Use and Chapter 9, Economic Development. CR-1 and
IH are the zoning designations applied to rural commercial and industrial parcels.


R U R A L C E N T ER
Rural Centers are distinguished by small lot development with a deﬁnite edge, surrounded by a
rural landscape of generally open land used for agriculture, forestry, large lot residential
development, recreation and environmental protection purposes. These centers are often at the
crossroads where historical development has allowed for both smaller lots and commercial uses
within these nodes of development. Within these centers rural residential development is based
on historical patterns. Commercial activities located at crossroads provide rural residents with an
opportunity to meet many of their daily needs without going into one of the cities.




R URAL & N ATURAL R ESOURCE E LEMENT                                                           114
                                          CLARK2045
Within the Rural Centers, the following land uses have been identiﬁed: residential, commercial,
industrial, public facilities, parks and open space. The commercial and industrial designations are
similar to past comprehensive plan maps with some additional commercial areas designated. The
commercial and industrial activities within these centers should support opportunity for job
growth, tax base to support schools, rural and resource needs and not draw people from the urban
area.

Commercial uses to be encouraged in Rural Centers include post ofﬁces, veterinary clinics, day
care, schools, small medical practices, shopping services and housing opportunities compatible
with surrounding roads and utilities. These, in turn, reinforce the center’s rural character and
distinct sense of community. The Rural Centers of Clark County are as follows: Brush Prairie,
Meadow Glade, Hockinson, Dollars Corner, Fargher Lake, Amboy and Chelatchie Prairie. Table 3.2
and 3.3 provides acreage information on existing land uses within these Rural Centers.

Table 3.2 Acreage of Land Uses in Clark County's Rural Centers, 1994
 Rural             Residential    Commercia      Industrial       Public      Total
 Centers            Acreage        l Acreage      Acreage        Acreage     Acreage
 Amboy                     364             23             NA           13         400
 Brush Prairie             242             49             36                      327
 Chelatchie                279             15            229                      523
 Dollars                   223            106             NA                      329
 Corner
 Hockinson                236              28            NA                       264
 Meadow                  1284              15             9                     1,308
 Glade



Table 3.3 Acreage of Land Uses in Clark County's Rural Centers, 2025
  Rural Centers     Residential    Commerci       Industrial       Public     Total
                     Acreage           al          Acreage        Acreage    Acreage
                                    Acreage
 Amboy                      167             26             0            15        208
 Brush Prairie              229             63            25            10        327
 Chelatchie                 192             11           234            42        479
 Dollars Corner              84             19             0             4        107
 Fargher Lake                68             21             0             4         92
 Hockinson                  237             32             0            30        299
 Meadow Glade               686              8             0             0        694



DESIGNATION CRITERIA
A variety of different attributes were assessed to determine the future land uses within the rural
and resource lands of the county. As required by the Growth Management Act legislation, the


115                                                            R URAL & N ATURAL R ESOURCE E LEMENT
                                       CLARK2045
conservation of resource lands (agriculture, forestry and mineral) was analyzed and based on the
criteria provided, resource lands were designated. After identifying resource lands, the rural lands
were analyzed with regard to lot patterns and sizes and current uses, including the commercial
activity within the Rural Centers. Furthermore, rural lot sizes providing for primarily residential
development were considered in light of the county’s ability to properly serve such sites. The GMA
designation criteria for both rural and resource lands were used in the determination of minimum
lot sizes for all land use designations. This determination was also based on the population
allocation to these areas and the ability to provide services. These land use designations
emphasize the pre-dominate types of uses be it resource-based or more residential in nature.

The policies for the rural area govern the use of lands, which are not reserved for agriculture,
forest, or mineral resources, nor are they designated for urban development. Land uses, densities
and intensities of rural development are to be compatible with both adjacent urban areas and
designated natural resource lands. A minimum lot size of one dwelling per ﬁve, ten, or twenty
acres has been designated throughout the rural area based on existing lot patterns; buffers to
adjacent resource lands; preservation of rural character and continued small scale farming and
forestry.

The policies for the resource areas govern the use of lands that are reserved for agriculture, forest
and mineral resources. More speciﬁc designation criteria for these three resource land categories
are found under the following three headings: Forest lands, Agricultural Lands and Mineral Lands.


R E S O U R C E L AN DS
Clark County is fortunate to have a variety of lands rich in natural resources including forests,
farmland and deposits of gravel, sand and other minerals. These natural resources are a
component of the economy, providing jobs, tax revenue and valuable products and materials for
local use and export. Farmlands and forests also provide aesthetic, recreational and environmental
beneﬁts to the public while contributing to the diverse character of the county. The resource land
designations are tailored to each of the resources and at a minimum address the guidelines
provided by state law.
Below is a brief description of the state minimum guidelines and methodology used in designating
forestry, agriculture and mineral resource lands. The majority of this work was developed with the
assistance of three citizen focus groups, each responsible for a speciﬁc resource.


F O R E S T L AN D S
The Washington Department of Commerce (Commerce) provided counties and cities with
guidelines to assist in classifying and designating resource lands. These guidelines include criteria
for identifying forest resource lands. According to Commerce, the private forestland grading
system of the state Department of Revenue should be used in classifying forest resource lands,




R URAL & N ATURAL R ESOURCE E LEMENT                                                             116
                                      CLARK2045
which includes the identiﬁcation of quality soils for forestry. Long-term commercially signiﬁcant
forestlands generally have a predominance of higher private forestland grades.

Forest land is deﬁned by the Growth Management Act as "land primarily useful for growing trees,
including Christmas trees...for commercial purposes and that has long-term commercial
signiﬁcance for growing trees commercially" (WAC 365-190-060). Long-term commercial
signiﬁcance "includes the growing capacity, productivity and soil composition of the land for long-
term commercial production, in consideration with the land's proximity to population areas and
the possibility of more intense uses of the land."

The effects of proximity to population areas and the possibility of more intense uses of the
surrounding lands are also important factors in classifying forestlands. Commerce provides seven
indicators as guidelines for local governments to use in classifying forestlands:

   •   the availability of public services and facilities conducive to the conversion of forest lands;
   •   the proximity of forestland to urban and suburban areas and rural settlements: forestlands
       of long-term commercial signiﬁcance are located outside the urban and suburban areas
       and rural settlements;
   •   forestlands consist of predominantly large parcels;
   •   the compatibility and intensity of adjacent and nearby land use and settlement patterns
       with forestlands of long-term commercial signiﬁcance;
   •   property tax classiﬁcation: property is assessed as open space or forestland pursuant to
       RCW 84.33 or 84.34;
   •   local economic conditions which affect the ability to manage timberlands for long-term
       commercial production and signiﬁcance; and
   •   history of land development permits issued nearby.

The delineation of forest lands began by quantifying and mapping Commerce’s seven indicators.
With the exception of soil grades (Figure 21), which are uniformly outstanding throughout the
county, maps were created showing parcel size, tree cover, tax status, physical structures, roads,
utilities, zoning, slope and rainfall. Urban areas and areas close to urban and suburban areas where
few stands of timber remain were not mapped.

The maps were used to identify forest resources within the county. The task was made easier by
the Washington Forest Protection Association, which represents many large and small forest
owners and the Washington Department of Natural Resources. These groups’ classiﬁed lands
under their ownership for designation as long-term forest resource land. Other lands were
designated based on the criteria outlined above.




117                                                      R URAL & N ATURAL R ESOURCE E LEMENT
                                       CLARK2045
A G R I C U L T U R AL L A N D S
Agricultural land is deﬁned by the GMA as "land primarily devoted to the commercial production
of horticulture, viticulture, ﬂoriculture, dairy, apiary, vegetable, or animal products or of berries,
grain, hay, straw, turf, seed, Christmas trees or livestock and that has long-term commercial
signiﬁcance for agricultural production" (WAC 365--190-050). Long term commercial signiﬁcance
"includes the growing capacity, productivity and soil composition of the land for long-term
commercial production, in consideration with the land's proximity to population areas and the
possibility of more intense uses of the land."

Quality soils are a primary factor in classifying and designating agricultural resource lands (Figure
22A and Figure 22B). Commerce requires that the land capability classiﬁcation system of the
United States Department of Agriculture Soil Conservation Service be used in classifying
agricultural resource land. This system includes eight classes of soils published in soil surveys. As
with forestlands, the effects of proximity to population areas and the possibility of more intense
uses of the land are important factors in classifying agricultural lands. Commerce provides 11
criteria (WAC 365-090-050(3)(c)) to assess these factors; however, it is left up to the local
jurisdictions to interpret these guidelines in the designation of resource lands:

   •   the classiﬁcation of prime and unique farmland soils and farmlands of statewide
       importance, as mapped by the NRCS
   •   the availability of public facilities,
   •   tax status,
   •   the availability of public services,
   •   relationship or proximity to urban growth areas,
   •   predominant parcel size,
   •   land use settlement patterns and their compatibility with agricultural practices,
   •   intensity of nearby land uses,
   •   history of land development permits issued nearby,
   •   land values under alternative uses and
   •   proximity to markets.

The classiﬁcation and designation of agricultural land began by quantifying and mapping
Commerce’s ten indicators. Maps were created showing prime and unique soil, agricultural cover,
forest cover, parcel size, tax status, physical structures, roads, utilities and zoning. Heavily
forested areas and urban areas were not mapped.

The maps were used to identify Clark County's most productive farmland. This process identiﬁed
farm areas that included major patterns of high quality soils and agricultural activity in areas with
generally larger parcels. These lands became candidate areas for consideration as agricultural
resource lands of long-term commercial signiﬁcance. Commerce’s guidelines again were used to
more closely examine candidate areas with serious limiting factors and to determine the relative
value of candidate areas for agricultural use. The Vancouver Lake lowland candidate area, with its


R URAL & N ATURAL R ESOURCE E LEMENT                                                              118
                                       CLARK2045
high quality of soils, large parcels and wildlife values, was placed in a special class. The remaining
candidate areas were divided into three tiers.

After completion of this work, looking at forestry and agriculture on an individual basis, it was
found that there were a number of areas where farming activity was occurring adjacent to
forestry and vice versa or where parcels were not identiﬁed up because both farming and forestry
activity was occurring on the site, with neither being the predominant use. Therefore, all the
"edges" of the resource areas were re-evaluated. Reconsideration of the land use designations in
these areas was done by a task force in 1998. Through that review, much of the 35,000 acres of
land designated as Agri-Forest under the 1994 Comprehensive Plan was redesignated to Rural 20,
10 or 5, representing 20, 10 or 5-acre minimum lot sizes. Approximately 3,500 acres of the land
was disputed by an alternative task force contingent. Consideration was remanded back to the
county by the courts. The Clark County Board of Commissioners voted to retain the rural
designation rather than a resource designation.

GMA allows the use of innovative zoning techniques in areas designated as agricultural lands of
long-term commercial signiﬁcance (RCW 36.70A.177). Listed among ﬁve examples is the use of
cluster zoning. A clustering provision was included in the 2016 Comprehensive Plan update.


M I N E R AL L AN D S
The Growth Management Act (RCW 36.70A.040 (3) (b)) requires Clark County and each city
within it to designate mineral resource lands and to adopt development regulations conserving
those resource lands from which the extraction of minerals occurs or can be anticipated. The Act
speciﬁcally requires the designation of “mineral resource lands that are not already characterized
by urban growth and that have long-term signiﬁcance for the extraction of minerals."
There are three key issues to the designation and conservation of mineral resource lands. These
issues include:

    •   deﬁning what types of mineral resources are potentially signiﬁcant in the county;
    •   deﬁning the extent and long-term signiﬁcance of aggregate that is needed to meet the
        demand of the county's projected population; and,
    •   determining how to balance a variety of land uses within mineral resource areas.

The mineral resources identiﬁed and mined in Clark County consist of two aggregate types: sand
and gravel (round rock) and quarry rock.

The primary uses of sand and gravel deposits are aggregate for Portland cement “ready mix”
concrete and asphalt concrete, drain rock, base rock and ﬁll. There are four principle sand and
gravel mining areas in Clark County: the North County-Woodland Area, East Fork of the Lewis
River, Orchards and East Mill Plain. The deposits in the northern half of the county are primarily
recent alluvium and Pleistocene terrace deposits. The thickness of the alluvial deposits ranges



119                                                       R URAL & N ATURAL R ESOURCE E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
from a few feet to tens of feet, while the terrace deposits are approximately 30-60 feet thick. The
rocks have not been weathered and are fairly hard.

The most abundant gravel deposits lie in the southern portion of the county (Orchards, East Mill
Plain). These are primarily recent alluvium and Pleistocene ﬂood deposits. The gravel here is
uniform in size, un-weathered and contains a high percentage of hard, non-reactive rocks. This
area also has little overburden and a close proximity to markets. Deposits range from 60 to 100
feet thick, with thickness generally decreasing with distance north from the Columbia River. The
expansion of the Vancouver and Camas urban areas has made a major portion of this resource
permanently inaccessible.

The second type of aggregate quarry rock is typically used as base rock for roads, riprap and jetty
rock or as crushed aggregate. In southwest Washington, most quarry rock is of marine volcanic
origin, characterized by poor strength and durability due to contact with sea water during
extrusion of lavas. However, there are several locations in Clark County where high-quality basalt
bedrock is found capable of producing substantial amounts of durable aggregate. Currently seven
rock quarries are in active operation in the county. With the exception of Fisher Quarry, most rock
quarries are located in the north and east portions of the county a considerable distance from the
market.

Mineral resource lands of long-term commercial signiﬁcance were designated as part of the 1994
Comprehensive Plan as required by WAC 365-190-070. Mineral resource lands consist of areas
that appear to contain the resource, based on the best available geological information; are
primarily not within environmentally sensitive areas (e.g., 100-year ﬂoodplain, high quality
wetland areas); and are at least 80 acres in size, or include at least one 40-acre parcel or two 20-
acre parcels which are currently vacant. Parcel size is not a requirement if the land is adjacent to
an existing mining site.

The Department of Natural Resources published an updated map showing known and potential
mineral resources in 2005 (Figure 23). Identiﬁed mining areas are designated with the Surface
Mining Overlay (SMO) District, which is an overlay zone that can be combined with any other
zoning district. Areas where the SMO was applied were updated in 2014.

Development standards in Title 40 were revised in 2014 to help maintain a balance between
surface mining and adjacent land uses. In the Surface Mining Overlay District extraction of mineral
deposits, rock crushing, asphalt plants and concrete batch plants require a conditional use permit.
Special standards include maximum permissible noise levels, hours of operation, drainage
provisions and land restoration requirements. The provisions of this district also apply to surface
mining operations that were active prior to the adoption of these standards.




R URAL & N ATURAL R ESOURCE E LEMENT                                                            120
                                      CLARK2045
C R I T IC A L /S E N S IT I V E L A N D S
Identiﬁcation and protection of critical areas is a key component of the GMA legislation. The
critical areas component, including maps, deﬁnitions and policies, can be found in Chapter 4,
Environmental Element. Critical areas can be found within the urban areas and within the rural
and resource areas of the county. These critical areas include ﬂood hazard areas, geological hazard
areas, wetlands, shoreline and surface waters, wildlife conservation areas, aquifer recharge areas
and scenic areas.



PARKS & OPEN SPACE
Realizing the importance of parks and recreation to the livability of the community, Clark County
adopted its ﬁrst Parks Comprehensive Plan in 1965. Clark County owns and operates
approximately 8,000 acres of park and open space lands. These lands are divided into two
categories: urban and regional facilities. Urban facilities include neighborhood parks, community
parks and urban open space. Regional facilities include regional parks, conservation and greenway
systems, trails and special facilities.


M A S T E R P L A N N ED R E S O R T S
The Growth Management Act allows counties to permit master planned resorts. A master planned
resort means a self-contained and fully integrated planned unit development, in a setting of
signiﬁcant natural amenities, with primary focus on destination resort facilities consisting of short-
term visitor accommodations associated with a range of developed on-site indoor or outdoor
recreational facilities. A master planned resort may include other residential uses within its
boundaries, but only if the residential uses are integrated into and support the on-site recreational
nature of the resort (RCW 36.70A.360).


C A P I T AL F AC IL I T I E S & U T IL I T I E S
Capital facilities are the basic services that the public sector provides to support land
development including roads, public schools, ﬁre and police protection, parks, libraries and
utilities. Within the rural area, water availability is provided either through private wells or by
Clark Public Utilities. Sewage disposal is predominately provided by on-site septic disposal.
However, there are areas, which have sanitary sewer systems due to failures of the septic systems,
such as Meadow Glade and Hockinson. Utilities are discussed in greater detail in Chapter 6,
Capital Facilities and Utilities.




121                                                      R URAL & N ATURAL R ESOURCE E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
T R A N S P O R T A T I ON
Land use and transportation are closely linked, even within the rural and resource areas. Within
the rural area, the functional classiﬁcation for roads includes Rural Principal Arterials, Rural Minor
Arterials and other rural roads such as Major and Minor Collectors and local roads. Analysis of
rural road deﬁnitions and deﬁciencies is discussed in the Transportation Element Chapter 5.


EQUESTRIAN ELEMENT
Clark County recognizes the contributions of equestrian livestock husbandry, training,
competition and recreation activities to the overall rural quality of life in Clark County. These
activities provide a lifestyle value to numerous county residents and visitors and economic
revenue for rural residents and business owners. There are numerous organizations that support
the equestrian industry by providing education and promoting equine husbandry, including the
Clark County Extension Service, Future Farmers of America, 4H, the Clark County Executive
Horse Council, the Mt. St. Helens Chapter of the Backcountry Horsemen and numerous other
special interest equestrian-related groups.

As growth continues to occur throughout the county, open land to sustain livestock and existing or
potential trail segments may be lost to uncoordinated land development and road improvements.
Also, requirements of the Endangered Species Act may limit livestock management choices and
the location of new equestrian facilities on land constrained by large riparian corridors.
Additionally, with the county’s emphasis on preserving agricultural and forestry lands within the
Resource and Rural Districts, the development of large equestrian facilities of a size and scale that
would be incompatible with agricultural and forestry practices within these districts should be
discouraged.

The Equestrian Community plays a vital role in Clark County’s economy and rural character. Clark
County is unique in the Portland metropolitan area for having many one- to ten-acre exurban
parcels. These properties, many of which host equine uses, are a premium attraction for some.
According to the Clark County Equine Impact report (Clark County Executive Horse Council,
2009), 4.8% of Clark County households own equines. The estimated number of equines in Clark
County is approximately 28,902.


COMMUNITY FRAMEWORK PLAN
Clark County adopted the Community Framework Plan in April 1993. The Framework Plan
established a consensus among the citizens of the county about the lands, which would eventually
be committed to urban uses and those which should remain rural. The Framework Plan is not a
detailed plan, but a plan that provides a framework through policies that guide the development of
the 20-Year Plan. The Framework Plan policies are discussed in Chapter 1 Land Use Element.
Policies that relate to rural lands can be found in most elements of the plan including Land Use,



R URAL & N ATURAL R ESOURCE E LEMENT                                                             122
                                      CLARK2045
Rural and Resource Lands, Transportation, Public Facilities, Utilities, Parks and Open Space,
Economic Development and Community Design.

GOALS & POLICIES
Climate-related goals and policies within this element are noted as helping achieve greenhouse
gas reduction [GHG], resilience [RES], or both [GHG, RES].


3.0        C O U N T Y W I D E P L A N N IN G P OL I C I ES
           3.0.1       The county shall recognize existing development and provide lands, which
                       allow rural development in areas, which are developed or committed to
                       development of a rural character.

           3.0.2       The county and each municipality shall cooperate to ensure the
                       preservation and protection of natural resources, critical areas, open space
                       and recreational lands within and near the urban area through adequate
                       and compatible policies and regulations.


C O U N T Y 20-Y E AR P L A N N I N G P O L I C I E S

RURAL AREAS – GENERAL
GOAL:
Compatible with maintaining rural character and rural (levels of service) (services),
ensure that lands outside of urban growth areas are viable places to live and work.

3.1        Policies

           3.1.1       Clark County shall maintain and protect the character of rural lands deﬁned
                       as those lands outside of urban growth areas by promoting:

                       •   Large lot residential development compatible with adjacent farming,
                           forestry and mining and not needing urban facilities and services;
                       •   Non-residential development in Rural Centers;
                       •   Economic development activities consistent with the preservation of
                           rural character;
                       •   Agriculture, forestry and mining activities;
                       •   Regional parks, trails and open space;
                       •   Environmental quality, particularly as evidenced by the health of
                           wildlife and ﬁsheries (especially salmon and trout), aquifers used for
                           potable water, surface water bodies and natural drainage systems; and




123                                                     R URAL & N ATURAL R ESOURCE E LEMENT
                                  CLARK2045
                   •   Historic character and resources including archaeological and cultural
                       sites important to the local community. [RES]

         3.1.2     Land use designations shown on the Clark County Comprehensive Plan
                   Land Use Map include areas that are rural in character and meet one or
                   more of the following criteria:

                   •   Generally characterized by a larger lot size;
                   •   Do not require urban levels of public services;
                   •   Opportunities exist for farming and mineral activities;
                   •   The area is contiguous with other rural lands or can serve as a buffer
                       between large-lot residential development and resource activities or
                       urban areas;
                   •   The area is not needed to provide capacity for population or
                       employment growth in the 20-year forecast; and,
                   •   The area has outstanding scenic, historic, environmental, resource or
                       aesthetic values.

         3.1.3     Clark County’s Rural Area is considered to be permanent and shall not be
                   redesignated to an Urban Growth Area until reviewed pursuant to the
                   Growth Management Act (RCW 36.70A.130(3) and Countywide Planning
                   Policy 3.0. [RES]

         3.1.4     Master Planned Resorts may be approved in an area outside of established
                   Urban Growth Boundaries consistent with the requirements for plan
                   amendments in the Clark County Code.

         3.1.5     Encourage cooperative resource management among farmland and
                   timberland owners, farm foresters, rural residents, environmental groups
                   and local, state and federal resource agencies for managing private and
                   public farm and forestlands and public resources. [RES]

         3.1.6     Rural development shall not be allowed unless appropriate facilities and
                   services (water, storm drainage, roads and approved sanitary treatment)
                   are in place or planned.

         3.17      Rural lands generally shall be served by septic tanks and individual wells
                   (when public water is not available). Wastewater treatment shall be
                   provided by individual on-site treatment systems or approved alternative
                   sewage treatment technologies.

         3.1.8     Sewer lines shall not be extended into rural areas except to correct existing
                   health hazards, provide public sewer to regional parks, or to serve a school
                   pursuant to RCW 36.70A.213. Sewer lines shall not be extended until other


R URAL & N ATURAL R ESOURCE E LEMENT                                                        124
                                    CLARK2045
                     means for treatment, such as state approved alternative technologies, have
                     been assessed and determined not to be feasible due to environmental
                     constraints.

          3.1.9      Rural and Resource land designations within the Columbia River Gorge
                     National Scenic Area are consistent with the requirements of the National
                     Scenic Area legislation. The minimum lot size requirements and uses shall
                     only be authorized to the extent that they are consistent with the National
                     Scenic Area legislation established to implement the requirement of the
                     scenic area.

          3.1.10     Activities in rural areas shall be conducted in a manner consistent with the
                     Clark County Shoreline Master Program, if in shoreline jurisdiction.

          3.1.11     Establish a public beneﬁt rating system (PBRS).

RURAL LANDS
GOAL:
Compatible with maintaining rural character and rural (levels of service) (services),
provide for lands outside of urban growth areas that are predominately for residential
uses.

3.2       Policies

          3.2.1      Rural lands as designated on the Comprehensive Plan Land Use Map are
                     generally for rural residential development, for accessory uses such as
                     home businesses and for small-scale resource uses.

          3.2.2      Land designated as Rural are characterized by a range of lot sizes and
                     generally are not characterized by high-quality soils.

          3.2.3      Those areas with a Rural Comprehensive Plan designation of Rural 5, Rural
                     10, and Rural 20 shall have residential densities of one dwelling unit per 5,
                     10 and 20 acres (R-5, R-10 and R-20), respectively.

          3.3.4      Clustering of parcels is allowed consistent with platting and zoning
                     requirements and the Clark County Code.

          3.2.5      If schools and related facilities need to be sited in rural areas, preference
                     shall be to locate ﬁrst in Rural Centers and then, as a last resort, in areas
                     designated as Rural.




125                                                    R URAL & N ATURAL R ESOURCE E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
RURAL CENTERS
GOAL:
Maintain the character of the designated Rural Centers within the surrounding rural
area.

3.3       Policies

          3.3.1      Rural Centers as designated on the Comprehensive Plan Land Use Map are
                     distinct areas that:

                     •   provide a focus for the surrounding rural area that is appropriate in
                         character and scale in the rural environment;
                     •   provide appropriate commercial developments to serve adjoining rural
                         areas;
                     •   provide services to tourists and other visitors recreating in the area;
                         and,
                     •   provide an opportunity to develop facilities that can function as a
                         community center in those areas where an incorporated town no longer
                         serves that role for the surrounding area.

          3.3.2      Rural Centers:

                     •   are generally characterized by smaller lot patterns;
                     •   have residential development and small-scale business that provides
                         convenience shopping and services to nearby residents;
                     •   have access to arterial roadways; and,
                     •   are surrounded by rural landscapes of generally open land used for
                         agriculture, forestry, large lot residential, recreational and
                         environmental protection purposes.

                     Rural Centers identiﬁed on the Comprehensive Plan Land Use Map are:
                     Amboy, Brush Prairie, Chelatchie Prairie, Dollars Corner, Fargher Lake,
                     Hockinson and Meadow Glade.

          3.3.3      Rural Centers shall have a residential density of between one unit per acre
                     and one unit per ﬁve acres (RC-1, RC-2.5 and R-5) based on the historical
                     pattern in the area. In no case shall density exceed one unit per acre.

          3.3.4      Rural commercial development should support the needs of rural residents
                     and natural resources activities rather than urban area uses. Appropriate
                     uses for Rural Centers include:




R URAL & N ATURAL R ESOURCE E LEMENT                                                        126
                                   CLARK2045
                    •   resource-based industrial development consistent with rural character
                        and levels of service;
                    •   commercial uses supporting resource uses, such as packing, ﬁrst state
                        processing and processing which provides value added to the resource
                        products may occur in resource areas; and,
                    •   post ofﬁces, veterinary clinics, day care, small medical practices and
                        schools that provide employment, shopping services and housing
                        opportunities within Rural Centers. The scale should be compatible
                        with surrounding roads and utilities, which reinforce the rural character
                        and distinct sense of community. [RES]

         3.3.5      If schools and related facilities need to be sited in rural areas, preference
                    shall be to locate ﬁrst in Rural Centers and then, as a last resort, in areas
                    designated as Rural.

         3.3.6      Rural Center designation criteria are as follows:
                    • an area proposed as a Rural Center had to have existed as of July 1,
                       1990, identiﬁable by pre-existing small lot development patterns,
                       natural features as boundaries and access to arterials;
                    • proponents of a new Rural Center shall submit to the county a petition
                       signed by at least 60 percent of the property owners of the land within
                       the boundaries of the proposed new Rural Center;
                    • an expansion of an existing Rural Center shall be considered and
                       evaluated by the county through the annual review process under
                       CCC40.560 and pursuant to RCW 36.70A.070(5)(d).
                    • a new Rural Center shall be considered and evaluated by the county
                       through the docket process under CCC40.560 and pursuant to RCW
                       36.70A.070(5)(d).

FOREST LANDS
GOAL:
To maintain and enhance the conservation of productive forestlands and discourage
incompatible uses associated with forestry activities.

3.4      Policies

         3.4.1      Forest lands as designated in the Comprehensive Plan Land Use Map shall
                    be managed primarily for the conservation of long-term commercial
                    signiﬁcant forest lands for productive economic use.

         3.4.2      Primary land use activities on forest lands are commercial forest
                    management, agriculture, mineral extraction, public recreation uses and
                    other non-forest related economic activities relying on forest lands.


127                                                   R URAL & N ATURAL R ESOURCE E LEMENT
                                  CLARK2045
         3.4.3     Those areas with Forest Tier I and Forest Tier II Comprehensive Plan
                   designations shall have a residential density of one dwelling unit per 80 and
                   40 acres (FR-80 and FR-40 respectively).

         3.4.4     Clustering of parcels is only allowed consistent with platting and zoning
                   requirements and the Clark County Code.

         3.4.5     Forest activities shall be encouraged by:

                   •   supporting land trades that result in consolidated forest ownership;
                   •   working with forest landowners and managers to identify and develop
                       other incentives for continued forestry; and,
                   •   taking into consideration in capital improvements plans maintaining
                       public roads adequate to accommodate the transport of forest
                       commodities.

         3.4.6     Land use activities within or adjacent to forestland shall be located and
                   designed to minimize conﬂicts with forest management and other activities
                   on forestland to include the following:

                   •   residential development on lands adjacent to designated forestland
                       shall be located away from the forestland and should provide for a
                       buffer between residential and forest activity;
                   • special development standards for access, lot size and conﬁguration,
                       ﬁre protection, water supply and dwelling unit location shall be adopted
                       for dwellings within or adjacent to designated forest lands; and
                   • notiﬁcation shall be placed on all plats and binding site plans that the
                       adjacent land is in resource use and subject to a variety of activities that
                       may not be compatible with residential development.
         3.4.7     Special purpose districts and local improvement districts in lands
                   designated in the 20-Year Plan for forest use will only be used when the
                   services or facilities provided by the special purpose district or local
                   improvement district through taxes, assessments, rates or charges directly
                   beneﬁt those forest lands.

         3.4.8     Resource activities on forest lands performed in accordance with county,
                   state and federal laws should not be considered public nuisances nor be
                   subject to legal action as public nuisances.

         3.4.9     In identifying and designating commercial forest land, the following factors
                   shall be taken into consideration: operational factors, growing capacity, site
                   productivity and soil composition, surrounding land use, parcel size,




R URAL & N ATURAL R ESOURCE E LEMENT                                                          128
                                   CLARK2045
                    economic viability, tax status and public service levels that are conductive
                    to long-term continuance in forest management.

AGRICULTURAL LANDS
GOAL:
To maintain and enhance productive agriculture lands and minimize incompatibilities
with adjacent uses.

3.5      Policies

         3.5.1      Agriculture lands as designated in the Comprehensive Plan Land Use Map
                    shall be managed primarily for the conservation of long-term commercial
                    signiﬁcant agriculture lands for productive economic use. [RES]
         3.5.2      Primary land use activities on agriculture lands are commercial agriculture
                    management, agriculture-related uses, temporary worker facilities, forest
                    activities and other non-agriculture related economic activities relying on
                    agriculture lands. [RES]

         3.5.3      Those areas with Agriculture Comprehensive Plan designations shall have a
                    residential density of one dwelling unit per 20 acres (AG-20).

         3.5.4      Clustering of parcels is only allowed consistent with platting and zoning
                    requirements and the Clark County Code.

         3.5.5      Those areas with Agriculture/Wildlife Comprehensive Plan designations
                    shall have a residential density of one dwelling unit per 160 acres
                    (AG/WL)c.

         3.5.6      Agriculture activities shall be encouraged by:

                    •   limiting residential development in or near agricultural areas;
                    •   limiting public services and facilities which lead to the conversion of
                        agricultural lands to non-resource uses;
                    •   maintaining public roads in capital improvement plans to accommodate
                        the transport of agricultural commodities;
                    •   cooperative resource management among agricultural land owners,
                        environmental groups, state and federal resource agencies and
                        federally recognized Native American tribes for managing the county’s
                        public and private agricultural lands;
                    •   supporting land trades that result in consolidated agricultural
                        ownership;




129                                                  R URAL & N ATURAL R ESOURCE E LEMENT
                                   CLARK2045
                    •   encouraging the maintenance of agricultural lands in current use
                        property tax classiﬁcations, including those classiﬁcations as provided
                        for in RCW 84.34 and CCC Chapter 3.08;
                    •   working with agricultural landowners and managers to identify and
                        develop other incentives for continued farming; and,
                    •   encouraging agricultural land use as a clean industry incorporating tax
                        breaks, right to farm, purchase of development rights, transfer of
                        development rights and other economic means and develop strategies
                        to support farming practices. [RES]

          3.5.7     Minimum parcel size should be adequate to allow reasonable and economic
                    agricultural use.

          3.5.8     Special purpose taxing districts and local improvement districts in lands
                    designated in the 20-Year Plan for agricultural use will only be used when
                    the services or facilities provided by the special purpose district or local
                    improvement district through taxes, assessments, rates or charges, directly
                    beneﬁt those agricultural lands.

          3.5.9     Land use activities within or adjacent to agricultural land shall be located
                    and designed to minimize conﬂicts with agricultural management and other
                    activities on agricultural land, to include the following:

                    •   residential development adjacent to agricultural land shall be
                        appropriately buffered from agricultural activities;
                    •   public services and utilities within and adjacent to designated
                        agricultural areas should be designed to prevent negative impacts on
                        agriculture and allow for continued resource activity;
                    •   notiﬁcation shall be placed on all plats and binding site plans that the
                        adjacent land is in resource use and subject to a variety of activities that
                        may not be compatible with residential development. [RES]

          3.5.10    Agricultural activities performed in accordance with county, state and
                    federal laws should not be considered public nuisances nor be subject to
                    legal action as public nuisances.

MINERAL LANDS
GOAL:
To protect and ensure appropriate use of gravel and mineral resources of the county
and minimize conﬂict between surface mining and surrounding land uses.




R URAL & N ATURAL R ESOURCE E LEMENT                                                           130
                               CLARK2045
3.6   Policies

      3.6.1      Support the conservation of mineral lands for productive economic use by
                 identifying and designating lands that have long-term commercial
                 signiﬁcance for mineral extraction and that are not already characterized
                 by urban growth.

      3.6.2      Designate mineral resource lands based on the following:

                 a. Geological, environmental, and economic factors, including, without
                    limitation, consideration of the evidence of the quality, quantity and
                    characteristics of the resource deposits in the area of interest;
                    proximity to unstable slopes, riparian and wetland areas, habitat for
                    endangered or threatened species, ﬂood hazard areas, parks, public
                    preserves, or other sensitive lands; and economic impacts of mining and
                    other uses of the area;
                 b. Surrounding land uses, zoning, and parcel size, including, without
                    limitation, consideration of proximity to and impacts on residentially
                    zoned areas with existing densities of predominantly one dwelling unit
                    per ﬁve acres or higher, and proximity to and impacts on agricultural
                    and forest lands; and
                 c. Suitability and safety of the existing transportation system to bear the
                    trafﬁc associated with mining, including, without limitation, the
                    suitability of public access roads to be used as haul roads, the distance
                    to market, the need to route truck trafﬁc through residential areas, and
                    adequacy of intersections to handle mining trafﬁc plus other trafﬁc.
                    Consideration of future improvements to the transportation system
                    may be considered only of the speciﬁc improvements are identiﬁed and
                    funded as part of the county’s transportation plan.
                 d. The surface mining overlay shall not be designated on parcels zoned
                    Rural (R).
                 e. Consideration that reclamation of mineral resource lands occurs after
                    mining and that such lands and that such lands may be re-purposed
                    consistent with the comprehensive plan.

      3.6.3      Ensure that mining-related activities on mineral resource lands follow best
                 management practices.

      3.6.4      Ensure that mineral extraction and processing operations minimize and
                 mitigate any signiﬁcant adverse impacts on water, ﬁsh, wildlife, and nearby
                 land uses.




131                                               R URAL & N ATURAL R ESOURCE E LEMENT
                                    CLARK2045
          3.6.5      Ensure that the use of adjacent lands will not interfere with the continued
                     use of designated mineral resource lands for the extraction of minerals.

          3.6.6       Establish notiﬁcation standards whereby developments on lands in the
                     vicinity of designated mineral resource lands are given notice that they are
                     locating in or adjacent to a potential mining area.

          3.6.7      Surface mining shall not occur within 100-year ﬂoodplains.

          3.6.8      Establish a Mineral Resource Commission and complete an updated
                     countywide mineral and aggregate resource study following adoption of
                     the comprehensive plan.

URBAN RESERVE LANDS
GOAL:
To identify a limited set of lands outside of but adjacent to urban growth areas that will
be ﬁrst priority lands for inclusion as needed urbanizable lands in subsequent UGA
expansions.

3.7       Policies

          3.7.1      If designated, Urban Reserve areas shall abut established urban growth
                     areas in all cases.

          3.7.2      Those areas with an Urban Reserve Comprehensive Plan overlay
                     designation shall have a residential density of one dwelling unit per 10 and
                     20 acres. The Urban Reserve Overlay is implemented by Urban Reserve-10
                     (UR-10) for future urban residential development and Urban Reserve-20
                     (UR-20) for all other types of future urban development. When applied, the
                     underlying zoning will remain.

          3.7.3      Urban reserve areas shall be based on the following:

                     •   the efﬁciency with which the proposed reserve can be provided with
                         urban services in the future;
                     •   the unique land needs of speciﬁc urban activities assess from a regional
                         perspective;
                     •   the provision of green spaces between communities;
                     •   the efﬁciencies with which the proposed reserve can be urbanized;
                     •   the proximity of jobs and housing to each other;
                     •   the balance of growth opportunities throughout the region so that costs
                         and beneﬁts can be shared;
                     •   the impact on the regional transportation system; and,



R URAL & N ATURAL R ESOURCE E LEMENT                                                         132
                             CLARK2045
              •   the protection of designated agricultural and forest resource lands from
                  nearby urbanization.

      3.7.4   All divisions of land in the urban reserve area shall be subject to the land
              division review process and result in parcels of 10 acres or more in size.

      3.7.5   Urban reserve lands shall be the ﬁrst priority lands for inclusion in urban
              growth boundaries.

      3.7.6   Prior to the inclusion of the urban reserve area in urban growth areas, the
              county will:

              •   work with cities to prepare and adopt general transportation, sewer
                  and drainage system plans for the urban reserve area which identify
                  areas with the urban reserve area appropriate for siting of public
                  facilities; and,
              •   work with cities, special districts and school districts to prepare and
                  adopt plans for siting of public facilities and schools.




133                                             R URAL & N ATURAL R ESOURCE E LEMENT
CHAPTER
ENVIRONMENTAL ELEMENT
                        4
                                       CLARK2045

CHAPTER 4
Environmental Element

INTRODUCTION
Clark County contains a diverse mixture of natural resources, parklands and open spaces. Of the
county’s 656 square miles, almost half is in forest and agricultural lands. Air, water and land
resources are essential to the very existence of human development. They inﬂuence every aspect
of quality of life, from the local climate to the availability of safe drinking water to ﬂood control
and drainage patterns to recreational opportunities and to the habitat that we share with plants
and animals.

The Environmental Element provides speciﬁc environmental goals and requirements as the basis
for development regulations and general goals for land use planning and parks acquisition. The
Environmental Element addresses land development throughout the entire unincorporated area
of the county and includes various environmental policies that apply to the entire county.

RELATIONSHIP OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL ELEMENT
TO OTHER ELEMENTS & PLANS
The Growth Management Act (GMA) recognizes that environmental protection is important to
the citizens of the State of Washington. The GMA contains ﬁve goals that relate to the natural
environment:

   •   Environment. This goal requires protection and enhancement of the environment and of
       the state's high quality of life, including air and water quality, and the availability of water.
   •   Open Space and Recreation. This goal requires the retention of open space and green
       space, the enhancement of recreational opportunities and ﬁsh and wildlife habitat,
       increasing access to natural resource lands and water, and the development of parks and
       recreation facilities. (See Chapter 7 for a more complete discussion of county parks,
       recreation and open space.)
   •   Natural Resource Industries. This goal requires the maintenance and enhancement of
       natural resource-based industries, including productive timber, agricultural and ﬁsheries
       industries. The conservation of productive forest lands and productive agricultural lands is
       encouraged, while incompatible uses are discouraged. (See Chapter 3 for a more complete
       discussion of the county’s natural resource industries.)
   •   Climate Change and Resiliency. This goal ensures that comprehensive plans, development
       regulations, and regional policies, plans, and strategies for countywide planning policies
       and regional transportation planning organizations adapt to and mitigate the effects of a



135                                                                      E NVIRONMENTAL E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
       changing climate; support reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and per capita vehicle
       miles traveled; prepare for climate impact scenarios; foster resiliency to climate impacts
       and natural hazards; protect and enhance environmental, economic, and human health and
       safety; and advance environmental justice. (See Chapter 14 for a more complete
       discussion of county climate change and resiliency.)
   •   Shorelines of the State. This goal requires the goals and policies of the Shoreline
       Management Act be considered an element of the county’s comprehensive plan. (See
       Chapter 13 for a more complete discussion of the county’s Shoreline Master Program.)

All development activities create some level of impact on the air, water and land resources of the
county. The beneﬁts of development activities are easily measured in terms of economic beneﬁts
to the county or its cities. However, there are often unintended consequences of development
that are not included in the environmental balance sheet, and often include negative impacts to
the public’s ﬁsh and wildlife resources. The programs and policies in the Environmental Element
attempt to address and mitigate these consequences.

The ultimate goal is to recognize the functions and values of the natural environment around us
and to, at a minimum, maintain or improve those functions and values, independent of the type of
development that is proposed. The Environmental Element of the 20-Year Plan is important
because protection and enhancement of our environment has the potential to conﬂict with other
20-Year Plan elements.

ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS & CONSERVATION
PROGRAMS

C R I T IC A L A R E A S
The GMA speciﬁcally lists ﬁve “critical areas” for which local governments must designate and
develop protection and enhancement programs. These are ﬁsh and wildlife habitat, wetlands,
aquifer recharge areas, ﬂood hazard areas and geological hazard areas. Protection of critical areas
and natural resource lands is a key goal and purpose of the GMA and is a longstanding goal of the
Clark County community. The county contains a variety of critical areas, ranging in size and scope
from smaller, discrete areas to broad areas. Fish and wildlife habitat areas provide habitat for
threatened, sensitive or endangered wildlife species. Aquifer recharge areas encompass most of
the lowland area within the county. The soils and terrain create signiﬁcant environmentally
sensitive areas, such as steep, erodible slopes, wetlands and ground water recharge areas (Figure
1). Many types of critical areas geographically overlap.

The beneﬁts that these critical areas yield range from providing ﬁsh, wildlife, or vegetative
ecosystem habitat to limiting or mitigating human concerns over water pollution, ﬂood hazards,
and temperature. Vegetation protection and enhancement is critical to protecting streams and
riparian habitat necessary for sustaining healthy ﬁsh and wildlife populations. Critical areas also


E NVIRONMENTAL E LEMENT                                                                          136
                                      CLARK2045
provide the beneﬁts of recreation, aesthetic enjoyment and water supplies. Maintenance of tree
cover, natural vegetation and wetlands are critical to prevention of erosion, ﬂooding, property and
habitat damage, the continued functioning of the ecosystem and preservation of rural character.

Unlike residential, commercial, industrial, or other uses, critical areas do not constitute a separate
20-Year Plan or zoning designation, unless they are under public ownership. Policies and programs
used to protect and conserve these areas involve a range of federal, state and local programs and
standards. Most policies used to address critical areas are therefore regulatory or incentive-based
and are applied to privately held lands.

One effective way of protecting critical lands is through public ownership. Publicly owned lands
within the urban area are largely conﬁned to parks which emphasize recreational opportunities.
Outside urban areas, most publicly owned lands emphasize wildlife and other critical land values,
although access and passive recreation may be allowed. Protecting sensitive lands through public
ownership requires that substantial funds be raised for acquisition and maintenance of the land.

Prohibitions or limitations on structural development also provide critical lands protection. Such
programs currently in place in Clark County include the Shoreline Master Program; ﬂood hazard,
wetlands and ﬁsh and wildlife conservation areas ordinances; and prohibitions against placement
of structures within designated unstable slope areas. As part of the development review process,
the State Environmental Policy Act (SEPA) authorizes the imposition of a wide range of conditions
which can prohibit or limit construction within certain areas or enact other mitigation measures to
protect or offset impacts to environmentally sensitive areas.


F I S H & W IL DL I F E H A B I T A T
Most of the land and water area of Clark County provides some form of ﬁsh or wildlife habitat.
Much of this area is in park land, resource production, or open space. Clark County has several
hundred miles of streams and rivers. Under state and federal law, these streams are designated to
support a wide range of “beneﬁcial uses” that include water supplies, support for Endangered
Species Act (ESA) listed species, ﬁsh and wildlife habitat and recreation. The ability of these
streams to meet these beneﬁcial uses is more generally considered stream health. Stream health
has not been comprehensively measured for all streams in the county and much of this work is
underway but not yet complete. Stream health is actively monitored by Clark County Public
Works Clean Water Division, conducting routine or periodic monitoring at most streams in
unincorporated Clark County. Available data on stream health shows that streams range from
near pristine conditions in remote areas of the Cascade Foothills to fair to poor health in urban
areas. Most rural streams could be categorized as being in fair to good health.

There are few lakes in Clark County. Aside from small manmade ponds and seasonal wetland
ponds, the only signiﬁcant lakes within or bordering the county are Vancouver Lake, Battle Ground
Lake, Lacamas Lake, Round Lake, Green Lake, Lake Rosannah, Lake Merwin and Yale Lake. These



137                                                                    E NVIRONMENTAL E LEMENT
                                       CLARK2045
areas provide essential habitat for a variety of ﬁsh, wildlife and plant species. They also provide
multiple recreation opportunities that include boating, ﬁshing, hunting and wildlife viewing.

Fish species inhabiting the Lower Columbia River, including its tributaries, include both resident
and migratory life history patterns. Resident ﬁsh species generally inhabit the lower Columbia
River their entire lives, where some may travel many miles both intra- and inter- annually. These
species can include resident rainbow trout, cutthroat trout and many non-game species. Migratory
ﬁsh species are considered anadromous, and include salmon, steelhead, and sturgeon.
Anadromous ﬁsh hatch in freshwater, migrate to the ocean as fry or parr where they mature over a
period of years, and return to freshwater to spawn. In addition to critical areas, the GMA requires
that local jurisdictions address the requirements of anadromous ﬁsh species.

Certain areas of important habitat are readily identiﬁable because of their protected status under
public ownership. The US Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) Ridgeﬁeld National Wildlife Refuge
contains over 5,000 acres of Columbia River ﬂoodplain consisting of marshes, lakes, woodlands,
grasslands and croplands, which provide migration and wintering habitat for Paciﬁc Flyway
waterfowl, as well as many species of water birds, raptors, shore and songbirds. The concentration
and diversity of native and migratory bird species in the Refuge are the largest in the county; and
includes sandhill cranes, a state endangered species. Several species of mammals, reptiles and
amphibians can also be found in the Refuge, including Columbian white-tailed deer, a state and
federally threatened species.

USFWS Steigerwald Lake National Wildlife Refuge, located in the southeast corner of the county,
includes 627 acres of Columbia River bottomland, consisting of reed canary grass marshes,
riparian woodlands and improved pastures. Among the species inhabiting the Refuge are raptors,
geese and marsh, water and riparian woodland songbirds. The Vancouver Lake lowlands area
provides over 1,000 acres of wildlife habitat within close proximity to Vancouver. The Washington
State Department of Fish and Wildlife (WDFW) owns and manages approximately 2,400 acres as
the Shillapoo Wildlife Area. The wildlife area provides habitat to wintering waterfowl, neotropical
migratory birds, Columbia white-tailed deer and contains a mix of agriculture lands, developed
pastures, wetlands, and oak woodlands.

Wildlife habitat is not restricted to those areas already under public ownership. Agricultural and
forest lands designated as resource lands under the GMA play a crucial role in providing important
wildlife habitat, such as winter-feeding areas, wildlife movement corridors, and buffers from more
intense development. Effective habitat connectivity requires strategic planning that goes beyond
jurisdictional boundaries. Landscape-scale land use planning can help mitigate habitat loss by
preserving large blocks of native habitat and protecting natural corridors – such as river forest
corridors and ridgetops – that link these remaining habitat areas. This approach is essential for
maintaining biodiversity and facilitating animal movement.




E NVIRONMENTAL E LEMENT                                                                           138
                                      CLARK2045
Through the Priority Habitat and Species (PHS) program, WDFW collects and analyzes data on
priority species and habitats, offering maps, lists and management recommendations that,
together, are essential for the designation and protection of Fish and Wildlife Habitat
Conservation Areas. This data can guide land use planning efforts and help ensure that critical
habitats are preserved and properly managed (Figure 2).


F I S H & W IL DL I F E H A B I T A T C O N SE R V A T I O N P R O GR A M S
The county’s ﬁsh and wildlife conservation areas ordinance (CCC Chapter 40.445) was adopted in
1997 and signiﬁcantly updated in 2006 and 2023. The stated purpose of the ordinance is to:
further the goal of no net loss of habitat functions and values within designated habitat areas by
protecting environmentally distinct, fragile and valuable ﬁsh and wildlife habitat areas for present
and future generations, while also allowing for reasonable use of private property. This ordinance
intends to conserve the functional integrity of the habitats needed to perpetually support ﬁsh and
wildlife populations.

The county most recently updated the ordinance in 2023 to reﬂect the best available information
as required by the GMA and has continued to update the ordinance as needed to remain
consistent with the new guidance from the Washington Department of Fish & Wildlife (WDFW)
and Washington Department of Commerce (Commerce). Development proposals involving
impacts to priority habitats and species often require consultation with WDFW.


H A B I T A T C O N S ER V A T I O N B A N K IN G
Habitat conservation banking is a method of mitigating a decrease in or loss of habitat function by
providing habitat functions and values (e.g. creating, restoring, enhancing and/or protecting
wetlands) away from the site of a proposed development project. A habitat conservation bank
generates credits that can be used for habitat mitigation for individual projects with ﬁsh and
wildlife habitat conservation area impacts. Conservation banking has a number of beneﬁts over
other mitigation strategies including:

   •   consolidation of small isolated mitigation projects into larger, more ecologically signiﬁcant
       sites;
   •   higher likelihood of long-term mitigation success; and,
   •   efﬁciency in permit review for projects using bank credits.

Habitat conservation banking is not a means of reducing the protection and conservation of
wetlands in the urban area. It is only a method to improve mitigation success at a regional scale
and streamline permit review for projects that have habitat impacts. The criteria used to evaluate
and permit habitat impacts are independent of the type of mitigation proposed and, instead, focus
on the beneﬁts and design of the project. A key element to developing an effective habitat
conservation banking program is to maintain a good inventory of high functioning habitat areas
that are at risk of habitat degradation in order to allow conservation bank developers to locate


139                                                                   E NVIRONMENTAL E LEMENT
                                       CLARK2045
sites that are well suited to bank development. Another key element is to ensure that the habitat
permitting process gives due consideration to the use of conservation bank credits when they are
available. Clark County has a process for authorizing conservation banks and administers two
Oregon White Oak Woodland Conservation banks.


E N D AN G E R E D S P E C I E S A C T
The United States Congress passed the Endangered Species Act (ESA) in 1973. It establishes
various processes and programs targeting conservation and recovery of species that are listed as
threatened or endangered. Clark County supports multiple ﬁsh species listed as threatened under
the ESA, including Chinook (listed 1999), Coho (listed 2005), chum salmon (listed 1999), steelhead
(listed 1998), bull trout (listed 1999), eulachon (listed 2010), and green sturgeon (listed 2006).

Clark County also has populations of, or the potential for, other important ﬁsh and wildlife species
listed under the Federal ESA. These species include gray wolf (listed in 1974), Columbian white-
tail deer (listed in 1968), northern spotted owl (listed in 1990), streaked horned lark (listed in
2013), yellow-billed cuckoo (listed in 1997), Oregon spotted frog (listed in 2014), golden
paintbrush (listed in 1997), water howelia (listed in 1994), Fender’s blue butterﬂy (2000) and
Kincaid’s lupine (2000). Protecting, conserving and enhancing critical stream and riparian habitat
and other priority habitats are essential to supporting and recovering threatened and endangered
ﬁsh and wildlife populations throughout the county.

States, counties and other jurisdictions must comply with the federal Endangered Species Act
when species are listed by avoiding harm to any member of the species or the habitat upon which
they depend. County policies and regulations must support recovery of those species. The goal is
to make Clark County a county where sustainable populations of salmon and other native species
are a testimony to a healthy ecosystem; where our well-being is supported by the integrity of the
ecosystem we share with other living species; and where, by ensuring healthy habitat for all
inhabitants of Clark County, we ensure the quality of life we value.

In addition to federally listed species, Clark County also includes populations, or the potential for,
ﬁsh and wildlife species on the Washington State endangered, threatened, or sensitive species list,
as classiﬁed by the Washington Fish and Wildlife Commission. The federal status of species under
the Endangered Species Act differs in some cases from state status.In 1998, the state adopted
the Salmon Recovery Strategy (RCW 77.85) as a guide to statewide salmon recovery
efforts. In response, the legislatively established Lower Columbia Fish Recovery Board
(LCFRB) was charged with developing and facilitating implementation of a salmon and
steelhead recovery plan for the lower Columbia River and its tributaries in Washington,
entitled “Washington Lower Columbia Salmon Recovery and Fish & Wildlife Subbasin
Plan” (LCFRB, 2010). The two overarching goals for this plan are to: 1) restore the region’s
ﬁsh species listed as threatened under the federal Endangered Species Act (ESA) to



E NVIRONMENTAL E LEMENT                                                                          140
                                      CLARK2045
healthy, harvestable levels and 2) protect and enhance other ﬁsh and wildlife species that
have been adversely affected by human actions, including the development and operation
of the Federal Columbia River Power System. In 2013, the National Marine Fisheries
Service (NMFS) adopted the recovery plan as part of the broader “domain plan” that
covers Washington and Oregon tributaries, as well as the mainstem Columbia River and
estuary. The LCFRB and its partners have been actively implementing recovery efforts for
the past 27 years, and its work is guided by a 15-member board that includes
representatives from local governments, the Washington State legislature, the Cowlitz
Indian Tribe, hydropower operators, environmental and landowner interests, and the
public. Clark County holds two seats on the LCFRB, including one County Councilor and
one citizen representative. Clark County has implemented or partnered on
implementation of many projects targeting recovery efforts during this time. Clark County
complies with all local state and federal regulations pertaining to the protection of ESA listed ﬁsh
and wildlife populations during the delivery of capital construction projects. Clark County also
participates in the Regional Road Maintenance ESA Program (Regional Program). The Regional
Program guidelines describe physical, structural and managerial best management practices
designed so that when they are used, singularly or in combination, they reduce road maintenance
activities’ impacts on water and habitat. Participation in the program has resulted in a biological
opinion from NMFS and approval under Limit 10 of the ESA section 4(d) rule.

In addition, land use planning will also accommodate state and federally listed wildlife species
through implementation of the county’s wetlands and ﬁsh and wildlife conservation areas
ordinance and State Environmental Policy Act land use regulations. Protecting and enhancing
critical upland habitat and prioritizing habitat connectivity is essential to supporting and
recovering terrestrial wildlife populations throughout the county.


W A T E R Q U AL I T Y
Clark County has an abundance of streams and groundwater supplies. Groundwater aquifers are
capable of providing huge amounts of water to industry, business, residences and agriculture. The
federal Clean Water Act lists the “beneﬁcial uses” of the United States’ rivers, streams and lakes.
Many beneﬁcial uses are features valued in Clark County and are required to be protected and
restored under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) municipal
stormwater permit. These are:

   •   surface water supply for industrial water supply, agricultural water supply, domestic water
       supply and stock watering;
   •   ﬁsh and wildlife production and habitat, including spawning, rearing, migration and
       harvesting;
   •   recreation and enjoyment, including contact recreation (swimming, wading, etc.), non-
       contact recreation (boating and sport ﬁshing) and aesthetic enjoyment; and



141                                                                    E NVIRONMENTAL E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
   •   commerce and navigation.

Urbanization inﬂuences stream biological health. The Washington Department of Ecology
Stormwater Management Manual for Western Washington (2024) describes the effects
urbanization has on water bodies. It states that before forests were cleared for farms and towns,
rainfall was largely absorbed into the ground where it replenished streams as springs and seeps.
As settlement occurs, trees are removed and replaced by ﬁelds, buildings and roads. Instead of
soaking into the ground and returning to streams as springs, rainwater runs off rapidly and greatly
increases stream channel erosion and degrades stream habitat. During the summer, stream ﬂow
may be reduced to low levels because less water is available to springs and seeps that feed the
stream. The manual also states that along with changing stream ﬂows, urbanization adds various
pollutants to surface water and groundwater.

The combination of increased runoff and pollutants in stormwater runoff drastically alters stream
habitats. Pesticides washed off landscaped areas can do great harm to aquatic insects that feed
ﬁsh. Stormwater runoff from roads, business, industrial facilities and residences degrades streams
by ﬂushing pollutants that harm ﬁsh and other aquatic life. The volumes of water running off
paved areas also wash away streambed sediments and the creatures that live there. If sediment is
allowed to wash off construction projects and agricultural land, it can smother aquatic creatures in
the streambed, such as smothering salmon eggs. In order to begin to address this problem, a set of
regulations was added to the Clean Water Act in 1987 to decrease problems caused by
stormwater runoff. The Clark County Stormwater Management Program is a direct response to
that mandate since 1999 under Washington Phase I Municipal Stormwater Permits, reissued
every 5 years.

Clark County performs many activities to meet requirements of a Washington Department of
Ecology permit to discharge stormwater to county water bodies and groundwater. The program
contains the following main program elements:

   •   regulatory program for development and redevelopment pollution control;
   •   operation and maintenance of storm sewers and roads to reduce polluted runoff;
   •   inspection of business sites and stormwater facilities for compliance with pollution control
       standards;
   •   watershed planning;
   •   monitoring, data management and evaluation to provide information to manage
       stormwater;
   •   coordination within Clark County and with other permittees;
   •   public involvement and education about untreated stormwater runoff and pollutant
       reduction; and
   •   stormwater capital improvements to reduce the potential harm caused to streams by
       stormwater runoff.




E NVIRONMENTAL E LEMENT                                                                        142
                                    CLARK2045
The regulatory program largely consists of implementing development regulations (CCC Chapter
40.386) requiring stormwater control facilities such as water quality treatment practices,
detention ponds and low impact development practices for development projects. Chapter 40.386
also requires construction projects to minimize erosion and sediment washed into streams from
land development and land-disturbing activities. The water quality ordinance (CCC Chapter
13.26A) addresses pollutants associated with everyday activities such as disposal of used motor
oil and vehicle wash water and mandates all stormwater facilities meet state and county
maintenance standards. In 2012 (and amended every few years, currently 2024 version), the
Department of Ecology published the Stormwater Management Manual for Western Washington,
which provides best available science for stormwater requirements relating to development and
re-development, stormwater maintenance standards and pollution control standards for existing
businesses. The county’s 2013 NPDES municipal stormwater permit required the county to
update its stormwater and erosion control ordinance (CCC Chapter 40.386) and stormwater
manual to be equivalent with the state stormwater manual. The current 2026 county stormwater
manual is equivalent to the Ecology Western Washington manual to implement the state mandate
for development projects to use low impact stormwater facilities where feasible.

The operation and maintenance program involves maintenance and repair of county stormwater
controls such as ponds and grassy swales, cleaning of catch basins and sweeping of roads. The
purpose is to reduce the amount of pollutants discharged from the system and make sure it
operates as designed. The program also includes a program to inspect and ensure that privately
operated stormwater facilities are properly cleaned and maintained. The NPDES stormwater
program also performs stream monitoring and watershed-scale stormwater planning.

Reducing stormwater pollution requires that individuals prevent their homes and businesses from
becoming pollution sources. For that reason, information and education is a major part of the
stormwater program.

Before the late 1990s, large areas of the county were developed without the stormwater control
facilities that prevent pollution and excessive amounts of runoff from harming streams. The
stormwater program includes a program to plan and build stormwater control facilities and stream
restoration projects to address stormwater problems created before the program began in 1999.
The six-year Stormwater Capital Plan is adopted each year by the Clark County Council. The
program maps all existing storm sewer systems and plans to build projects using stormwater fees
from each home, business and government property in unincorporated Clark County.


WETLANDS
Wetlands provide valuable ﬁsh and wildlife habitat and include marshes, swamps, fens and bogs
that perform several other functions. Wetlands can aid hydrology by moderating water overﬂow,
advancing groundwater recharge and enhancing water quality. Water quality is enhanced by
preventing erosion, removing sediments and ﬁltering nutrients and other pollutants from runoff



143                                                                E NVIRONMENTAL E LEMENT
                                     CLARK2045
and slowing down the ﬂow of water which allows time for pesticides and other chemicals to break
down. Wetlands also provide vegetative habitat and human recreational and open space
amenities.

 Countywide mapping covering the full range of wetland classes is available in a generalized form
through the Clark County Wetland Inventory, the National Wetland Inventory, and hydric soil
mapping; these inventories are inaccurate on a site-speciﬁc basis. More precise wetland
boundaries are not usually known until site speciﬁc analyses are conducted, normally during the
review of individual development proposals. Most wetland areas are in low elevations areas within
relatively close proximity of rivers and streams, or associated ﬂoodplains (Figure 3 and Figure 4).


W E T L A N D S C ON S E R V A T I O N P R O G R A M
The county’s wetland ordinance (CCC Chapter 40.445) was adopted in 1992, signiﬁcantly updated
in 2006, 2014, and most recently 2023. The stated purpose of the ordinance is to:

   •   include best available science as deﬁned in Chapter 365-195 WAC to protect the functions
       and values of wetlands with special consideration to conservation or protection measures
       necessary to preserve or enhance anadromous ﬁsheries;
   •   further the goal of no net loss of functions and values of wetland areas;
   •   encourage restoration and enhancement of wetlands with lower functions and values;
   •   provide greater protection of wetlands with higher functions and values;
   •   are administered with ﬂexibility and attention to site-speciﬁc characteristics;
   •   ensure reasonable use of private property;
   •   do not prohibit development of needed public infrastructure and utilities; and
   •   complement state and federal regulations and programs that protect or conserve water
       quality or ﬁsh and wildlife habitat.

The county recently updated the ordinance in 2023 to reﬂect the best available information as
required by the GMA, more speciﬁcally to reﬂect mitigation sequencing and wetland buffer
protection guidance from the Washington Department of Ecology (WDOE). The ordinance utilizes
the Washington State Wetland Rating System for Western Washington to rate wetlands from
Category 1 to Category 4 based on site speciﬁc characteristics and landscape position. The county
regulates based on a combination of the type of wetland and the intensity of the use around it.
Development proposals involving wetlands often need review by the Army Corps of Engineers
(under Section 404 of the Clean Water Act) and WDOE (under RCWs 90.48 and 90.58).


W E T L A N D S M IT IG A T I O N B AN K IN G
Wetlands mitigation banking is a method of mitigating a decrease in or loss of wetland function by
providing wetland functions and values (e.g. creating, restoring, enhancing and/or protecting
wetlands) away from the site of a proposed development project. A wetland mitigation bank



E NVIRONMENTAL E LEMENT                                                                       144
                                       CLARK2045
generates credits that can be used for wetland mitigation for individual projects with wetland
impacts. Mitigation banking has a number of beneﬁts over other mitigation strategies including:

   •   consolidation of small isolated mitigation projects into larger, more ecologically signiﬁcant
       sites;
   •   higher likelihood of long-term mitigation success; and,
   •   efﬁciency in permit review for projects using bank credits.

Wetland mitigation banking is not a means of reducing the protection and conservation of
wetlands in the urban area. It is only a method to improve mitigation success at a regional scale
and streamline permit review for projects that have wetland impacts. The criteria used to evaluate
and permit wetland impacts are independent of the type of mitigation proposed and, instead,
focus on the beneﬁts and design of the project. A key element to developing an effective wetland
mitigation banking program is to maintain a good inventory of existing and historic wetlands in
order to allow mitigation bank developers to locate sites that are well suited to bank development.
Another key element is to ensure that the wetland permitting process gives due consideration to
the use of mitigation bank credits when they are available. Clark County has a process for
authorizing mitigation banks and actively participates in the Interagency Review Team for wetland
mitigation banks permitted under State and Federal rules in Clark County. There are currently
four wetland mitigation banks operating in Clark County. .


A Q U IF E R R EC H AR G E A R E A S
An aquifer is a body of rock (generally sand, gravel, or fractured basalt in Clark County) that
transmits groundwater in useable quantities to wells. Almost all of the county's industrial water
needs and about 47 percent of public water needs are met by wells located near the Columbia
River, where the overlying deposits consist mostly of coarse sand and gravel. Water inﬁltrates the
soil and percolates through surface rocks into the water Table and then travels deeper downward
into aquifers, which are water sources in most parts of the county. Recharge of aquifers is often
greatly reduced in urban areas because most surfaces are impervious, preventing rainfall from
entering the soil. Some aquifer recharge occurs in urban areas through dry wells and septic system
drain ﬁelds, but these methods may decrease groundwater quality by allowing contaminants to
enter the soil.

Since most of the lowland area of the county is covered with permeable alluvial, or sand, gravel
and silt deposits, there is no one identiﬁable point of recharge. Virtually the entire county pervious
area functions as an aquifer recharge area to some extent. The most critical aquifer recharge areas
are those located near production wells (Figure 6).


A Q U IF E R P R O T EC T I O N P R O G R A MS
Clark County residents and commerce are almost totally dependent on water pumped from
relatively shallow aquifers. Both the quantity and quality of this water is critical. The county has


145                                                                     E NVIRONMENTAL E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
several programs to protect aquifer recharge amounts and water quality. The stormwater and
erosion control ordinance (CCC Chapter 40.386) for development projects require stormwater
inﬁltration wherever soil conditions make it feasible. This preserves recharge when sites are
covered with buildings and pavement. Stormwater regulations also require that this inﬁltrated
stormwater be treated to remove pollutants.

The water quality ordinance (CCC Chapter 13.26A) prohibits discharging pollutants to surface
water and groundwater. The county implements the ordinance by actively educating businesses
and the public on acceptable ways to manage everyday pollutants such as used oil, paint and dirty
wash water.

The critical aquifer recharge area (CARA) ordinance (CCC Chapter 40.410) identiﬁes critical areas
and places special requirements on higher risk development projects in those areas. The CARA
ordinance was updated in 2005 to reﬂect best available information as required by the GMA and
was most recently amended in 2020.

Source-based policies are typically used to provide protection to larger and less clearly deﬁned
critical areas, such as aquifer recharge areas, or to address other concerns related to ground or
surface water quality. Sewage regulations, particularly those regarding septic system uses, are
administered by Clark County Public Health and are directed toward the protection of critical
areas which are not necessarily at the site of the potential pollutant source. Stormwater
management policies and programs administered by Clark County are similarly intended to
address potential adverse water quality impacts beyond the source site.


FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
Flood hazardous areas are another category of critical area and are often associated with riparian
corridors. Flood hazard areas are deﬁned and delineated by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) to include all areas subject to ﬂooding during 100-year ﬂood events (1 percent-
annual-chance ﬂood event). This deﬁnition encompasses areas along most rivers in the county.
These areas provide wildlife habitat, hydraulic functions, and several additional beneﬁts. Building
limitations in these areas limit damage to persons and property from the periodic ﬂoods (Figure 5).


F L O O D P R O T E C T I O N P R O G R AM S
It is recognized that approximately 90% of all disasters in the US are ﬂood-related. The avoidance
of damage from ﬂooding is accomplished by the application of zoning regulations and building
ordinances. The National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) was created by Congress in 1968 and
signiﬁcantly amended in 1973 to:

   •   reduce loss of life and property caused by ﬂooding;
   •   reduce rising disaster relief costs caused by ﬂooding; and
   •   make federally-backed ﬂood insurance coverage available to property owners.


E NVIRONMENTAL E LEMENT                                                                         146
                                      CLARK2045
The program was designed to achieve these goals by:

   •   requiring that new and substantially improved buildings be constructed to resist ﬂood
       damages;
   •   guiding future development away from ﬂood hazard areas;
   •   transferring the costs of ﬂood losses from the American taxpayers to ﬂoodplain property
       owners through ﬂood insurance premiums; and
   •   prohibiting new development in designated ﬂoodways that would aggravate ﬂooding.

The National Flood Insurance Program is a voluntary program based on mutual agreement
between the federal government and the local community. In exchange for adopting and enforcing
a ﬂood plain management ordinance, federally-backed ﬂood insurance is made available to
property owners throughout the community.

The National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 created the Federal Insurance Administration and
directed it to conduct Flood Insurance Studies (FIS) that identify ﬂood-prone areas within the US
and establish and map ﬂood risk zones within those areas. The studies provide technical data for
the adoption of ﬂoodplain management measures required for NFIP participation by a community
and for development of ﬂood-risk information needed to establish ﬂood insurance premiums.

In March of 1977, the county adopted a ﬂood hazard ordinance (CCC Chapter 40.420). Clark
County, in partnership with FEMA, periodically is required to complete updates to the Flood
Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMS) and to Chapter 40.420 . Changes have been made to the ﬂood
hazard ordinance to bring the ordinance into compliance with federal requirements and to comply
with the best available information requirement of the GMA. The ordinance was most recently
amended in 2023.


GEOLOGICALLY HAZARDOUS AREAS
Geologically hazardous areas are not environmentally-valued critical areas such as wetlands or
wildlife habitat, even though many contain critical ﬁsh and wildlife habitat protected by other
ordinances. The primary function of development limitations within geologically hazardous areas
is to limit potential adverse impacts to persons and property. The primary geologically hazardous
areas are those of steep and or unstable slopes, which are often, but not exclusively, found along
the stream corridors.


G E O H A Z A R D P R O T E C T I O N P R O GR A M S
The county’s geologic hazard areas (geohazards) ordinance (CCC Chapter 40.430) was enacted in
1997 and most recently amended in 2019. Maps have been produced showing earthquake
potential and steep slopes with the susceptibility to landslides and erosion (Figures 7, 8 and 9). The
geohazards ordinance was updated in 2005 to reﬂect better seismic hazard vulnerability
information throughout the county and to meet the best available information of the GMA. The


147                                                                    E NVIRONMENTAL E LEMENT
                                     CLARK2045
county adopted the International Residential Code in 2005. New, more stringent and relevant
seismic codes will be incorporated into the permitting and building ordinances as necessary.


O T H E R H AZ A R D M I T I G A T I O N P R O G R A M S
Natural hazards (such as ﬂoods and landslides, earthquakes, volcano, severe weather, drought,
winter storms and wildﬁres) to Clark County’s natural resources, parklands and other
environmentally critical areas cause millions of dollars of damage every year. In 2016, Clark
Regional Emergency Services Agency (CRESA) lead a multi-agency collaborative effort to create
the Clark Regional Natural Hazard Mitigation Plan (CRNHMP), replacing the previous Multi-
Hazard Mitigation Plan. In 2023 the CRNHMP was updated again. The Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) approved CRNHMP is designed to be the foundation of a long-term
strategy to reduce disaster losses and break the cycle of damage, reconstruction and repeat
damage. A FEMA approved CRNHMP also makes participating jurisdictions eligible for federal
hazard mitigation grant funds.

As established by the planning partnership, the purpose of the CRNHMP is to deﬁne natural
hazard risk, provide the most up to date information on the identiﬁed hazards, and, through
collaboration and partnerships, establish strategies and actions for reducing the impacts of
disasters in Clark County.

Goals of the plan include:

   •   Reduce and prevent the loss of life and property.
   •   Protect public services and critical facilities from the impacts of natural disasters.
   •   Increase public awareness of vulnerability to natural hazards and educate on risk
       reduction strategies.
   •   Promote community resilience.
   •   Protect environmental resources and utilize natural systems to reduce natural hazard
       impacts.
   •   Develop and implement cost-effective mitigation strategies.

The hazard information contained within the CRNHMP is intended to be integrated into county
and other local jurisdictions’ planning efforts whenever possible. The identiﬁed strategies and
actions within the CRNHMP are of such value they are to be incorporated into the ordinances and
codes of the county wherever possible in order to make natural hazard mitigation a sustainable
part of everyday life.

The inclusion of identiﬁed Hazard Mitigation strategies and action in order to safeguard the
county’s natural resources are an important part of the 20-Year Plan. Whenever possible, the
county and its CRNHMP partners will include proven mitigation strategies and actions as one of
the primary methods of avoiding or lessening damages and impacts from the hazards of future



E NVIRONMENTAL E LEMENT                                                                         148
                                      CLARK2045
natural disasters into the 20-Year Plan and associated plans. The strategies and actions for hazard
mitigation are to be enforceable, sustainable and maintainable for the protection of the land and
its residents.

SHORELINES
The shorelines of rivers, streams and lakes of Clark County are important and sensitive natural
resources and encompass other critical areas such as wildlife areas, wetlands and ﬂood areas.
They provide habitat, drainage, recreational opportunities, transportation and economic
opportunities, some of which may conﬂict with each other. The State Shoreline Management Act
of 1971 (SMA) deﬁnes shorelines as being within 200 feet of the ordinary high water mark or
associated wetlands of all rivers with mean annual ﬂow of 20 cubic feet per second (cfs) or more
and lakes greater than 20 acres in size. This deﬁnition encompasses the majority of shorelines for
most of the rivers and lakes within Clark County, although shorelines of smaller water bodies also
provide many of the same functions.

Clark County’s Shoreline Master Program (SMP) was originally adopted in 1974. The Department
of Ecology issued new shoreline rules in 2003. The county and its cities formed a Shoreline
Coalition in 2008 and applied for an Ecology grant to update SMPs across the county. The county’s
comprehensively updated SMP was approved by Ecology and took effect in September 2012, and
was most recently amended in 2023. Chapter 13 of the Comprehensive Plan contains the county’s
shoreline policies; CCC Section 40.460 contains shoreline development regulations; and the
ofﬁcial shoreline map is in Figure 36.

COLUMBIA RIVER GORGE NATIONAL SCENIC AREA
Clark County contains a variety of scenic areas, typically located near major river systems. The
most prominent is in southeast corner of the county, where approximately 6,000 acres east of the
City of Washougal was designated by Congress as part of the Columbia River Gorge National
Scenic Area (NSA) in 1986. From 1988 to 1996 speciﬁc land use regulations intended to foster the
scenic, natural, cultural and recreational functions of these and other similarly designated areas
within the Gorge were administered by the US Forest Service and an appointed Columbia River
Gorge Commission and staff. In 1996, Clark County adopted an implementing ordinance, which
was deemed consistent with the management plan for the NSA by the Gorge Commission and the
Secretary of Agriculture. This approval allows for county administration and jurisdiction over
these lands.

The Columbia River Gorge Commission approved the revised “Gorge 2020” Management Plan for
the NSA in 2020. In early 2021, the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture concurred with the revisions. As a
result, the county updated its scenic area ordinance (CCC Chapter 40.240) in late 2021. The
Gorge commission reviewed the county’s ordinance for consistency with the management plan in
early 2022 and the county received concurrence from the Secretary of Agriculture in mid-2022.
One of the ongoing efforts in the NSA is a program to improve air quality in the gorge.


149                                                                   E NVIRONMENTAL E LEMENT
                                       CLARK2045
REGIONAL CONSERVATION & GREENWAY SYSTEMS
Regional Conservation and Greenway Systems are the "resource-based" open space land types
identiﬁed in the Clark County Open Space Commission Final Report (August 1992). The Open
Space Commission identiﬁed 17 functions for open space that were divided into economic,
resource, urban-based and other categories and subsequently identiﬁed a number of "open space
categories" as being of greater importance including the following:

   •   river systems and associated ﬂood plains, which provide low-intensity recreation, natural
       vegetation, shorelines, ﬁsheries and wildlife habitat (for example, the North and East Forks
       of the Lewis River, Lacamas Lake and Creek, Washougal River, Burnt Bridge Creek and
       Salmon Creek);
   •   Columbia River lowlands, providing beneﬁts similar to river systems and ﬂood plains, but
       of a much larger scale than other county river systems;
   •   Cascade foothills, providing signiﬁcant wildlife habitat and vegetation, sensitive water
       features, remote/low intensity recreation; and
   •   dispersed open space areas which are site speciﬁc and combine resource, economic and
       urban based areas.

Conservation and greenway systems may be managed for a variety of uses, depending on the
attributes of the site. Potential uses include wildlife habitat, low impact access for wildlife viewing
and environmental education, regional trails and where appropriate, picnic areas, boat ramps,
ﬁshing areas and regional parks. The Greater Clark Parks District coordinates development of
management scenarios with the state and federal wildlife agencies. Planning for and developing a
park and recreation system which serves the diverse recreational interests of the residents of
Clark County and fosters an environmentally sensitive approach toward preservation and
enhancement of the county's valuable natural resources such as ﬁsh and wildlife habitat, wetlands
and water quality. (See Chapter 7 for more details.)

AIR RESOURCES
Clark County is part of the Vancouver-Portland metropolitan area, which spans both Washington
and Oregon. The airshed is bounded on the south by West Linn, Oregon, on the north by
Woodland, Washington, on the west ﬁrst by the west Portland hills and then further west by the
Coast Range and on the east by the Cascade Mountains. This region experiences a temperate
climate, with mild, wet winters and warm, dry summers. The area's topography, surrounded by
mountains, can contribute to the buildup of air pollutants, especially during certain weather
conditions. Strong atmospheric inversions can lead to stagnant air conditions, increasing the risk
of high pollution levels.

The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) considers the Vancouver-Portland metropolitan
area to be a single interstate airshed, which is susceptible to elevated air pollution levels,
particularly in areas with dense human activity. The region is particularly vulnerable to air quality



E NVIRONMENTAL E LEMENT                                                                           150
                                     CLARK2045
issues during winter months, when inversions trap pollution near the ground, and in the hotter
summer months when there is a prevalence of wildﬁres.

Wildﬁres have become a major contributor to elevated levels of ﬁne particulate matter (PM2.5) in
the region. Smoke from wildﬁres, both local and from distant areas, can travel long distances and
degrade air quality. These ﬁres can signiﬁcantly increase PM2.5 levels, leading to health concerns
and contribute to the challenges of maintaining air quality during wildﬁre season.

Anthropogenic Sources of Air Pollution: Air pollutants come from a range of sources, which can
be categorized into point sources, area sources, and mobile sources. Each type of source
contributes to overall air quality, but varies signiﬁcantly in terms of emissions and control
measures.

   • Point Sources: These are ﬁxed, stationary facilities like power plants, manufacturing plants,
     and industrial operations. While these sources can generate large volumes of air
     pollutants, emissions from point sources are generally well-controlled through air
     permitting programs, which often require pollution control equipment. Clark County’s
     industrial facilities (major sources) contribute a small proportion of the county’s total air
     pollution, with these sources accounting for less than 5 percent of ozone precursor
     pollutants (such as volatile organic compounds [VOCs] and nitrogen oxides [NOx]) and less
     than 10 percent of ﬁne particulate matter (PM2.5).
   • Area Sources: Area sources include pollution from smaller, dispersed activities such as
     residential wood burning, outdoor burning, use of solvents, and gasoline-powered
     equipment. While each individual source may be small, the collective emissions from these
     sources are signiﬁcant. In Clark County, area sources contribute around 20 percent of the
     total VOCs and NOx and are responsible for most of the PM2.5 air pollution. The largest
     contributor to PM2.5 air pollution is residential wood burning.
   • Mobile Sources: Mobile sources, such as cars, trucks, buses, airplanes, trains, and off-road
     vehicles, are a major source of air pollution in Clark County. As of recent data, mobile
     sources account for over half of the ground-level VOCs and NOx and are responsible for a
     signiﬁcant portion—around 85 percent—of carbon monoxide pollution. They are also a
     small contributor to PM2.5 pollution. While improvements in vehicle emissions technology
     and fuel efﬁciency have helped reduce pollution from this source, mobile sources continue
     to be one of the largest contributors to air quality issues in the region.

Air Quality Maintenance Programs: Clark County has faced challenges in meeting federal air
quality standards in the past, particularly for ozone and carbon monoxide. The area was
designated as a non-attainment zone for ozone and carbon monoxide in 1991 by the Governor of
Washington. In response, the Southwest Clean Air Agency (SWCAA) developed and submitted air
quality maintenance plans to address these pollutants, which included strategies such as reducing
outdoor burning and regulating the use of wood stoves.




151                                                                  E NVIRONMENTAL E LEMENT
                                       CLARK2045
The implementation of these plans has helped Clark County maintain compliance with federal
standards for ozone and carbon monoxide since the mid-1990s. Carbon monoxide (CO) levels, in
particular, have decreased over time, leading to the removal of the county's CO monitor in 2006.
Under the 2006 CO maintenance plan update, CO monitoring is no longer required as long
as emissions from mobile sources remain below 2002 levels.

However, air quality remains a concern, especially with regard to ozone and ﬁne particulate
matter. Summertime ozone levels have been relatively good in recent years, but the region is still
vulnerable to elevated ozone levels, particularly with rising summer temperatures and as vehicle
miles traveled (VMT) increase and stricter standards are introduced. While Clark County has
historically been in attainment with federal standards, there are still typically several days per year
when air pollution is at unhealthy levels (above the 24 hour average NAAQS standard) in
Vancouver.

Wood Smoke and PM2.5 Pollution: In Clark County, wood smoke is a signiﬁcant source of PM2.5
pollution, especially during the winter when people use wood stoves, ﬁreplaces, and inserts for
heating. Chemical analyses of air samples collected during high PM2.5 days have found that wood
smoke contributes a substantial portion of the pollution on these exceedance days. Recognizing
the impact of wood smoke, the state has implemented programs to encourage the replacement of
older wood stoves with cleaner alternatives. Additionally, outdoor burning within urban growth
areas has been permanently prohibited since 2007 to reduce air pollution.

Wildﬁre smoke contributes additional particulate pollution. As climate change and longer, more
intense wildﬁre seasons have become more prevalent, the frequency and severity of wildﬁre-
related air quality issues have increased. These smoky conditions can persist for days or weeks,
further compromising air quality and public health, particularly for those with respiratory
conditions.

Mobile Sources and Emission Reductions: Mobile sources remain the largest anthropogenic
contributor to air pollution in Clark County, responsible for the majority of emissions of NOx,
VOCs, and carbon monoxide. Mobile sources also contribute signiﬁcantly to greenhouse gas
emissions, which are a growing concern for both air quality and climate change. Efforts to reduce
emissions from mobile sources include stricter vehicle emission standards, improvements in fuel
technology, and incentives for electric vehicle adoption.

The second-largest contributor to air pollution in Clark County is area sources, which account for
about 15 percent of total emissions. The most signiﬁcant component of this category is residential
wood burning, which is responsible for a sizable portion of total air pollution and most of the
wintertime PM2.5 pollution. Industrial emissions follow behind, but industry’s contribution is still
less signiﬁcant compared to transportation and residential wood burning sources. New industries
entering Clark County are required to implement the best available control technology to
minimize emissions.



E NVIRONMENTAL E LEMENT                                                                           152
                                      CLARK2045

Land Use and Transportation Planning: To further improve air quality, land use planning must
incorporate air quality considerations. Decisions regarding zoning, development, and
infrastructure should consider their potential impact on emissions, particularly those related to
transportation and residential heating.

One of the most effective strategies for reducing vehicle-related air pollution is improving
transportation options. Planning for walkable communities, integrated public transportation
systems, and cycling infrastructure can reduce reliance on motor vehicles. Providing convenient
bus routes, bike lanes, and pedestrian pathways for short trips can signiﬁcantly cut down on
emissions from personal vehicles. Connecting bus systems with light rail networks across the
region is a key strategy for improving air quality and reducing congestion.

Air Resources Summary: Ensuring clean air in Clark County requires a multifaceted approach,
involving stricter regulations for mobile sources, better control of area sources like residential
wood burning, and smart land use planning that encourages alternative transportation options. As
Clark County continues to grow, addressing air quality through both regulatory measures and
innovative planning will be crucial for maintaining a healthy environment and ensuring compliance
with federal standards. Additionally, addressing the impact of wildﬁre smoke, which exacerbates
the region's air quality challenges, will be key to improving overall public health outcomes.

GOALS & POLICIES
A variety of programs and policies exist for the protection and conservation of environmentally
critical areas. Due to the geographical overlap of many of the types of critical areas, there is a
functional overlap of many of the policies. A program to address one type of critical area, such as a
building limitation within a ﬂoodplain, may often offer some additional protection for other critical
areas, such as wildlife habitat or wetland functions.



WASHINGTON STATE GOALS & MANDATES
As noted earlier, the GMA requires the identiﬁcation and protection of critical areas (RCW
36.70A.170 and 172). Critical areas can be found within the urban areas and within the rural and
resource areas of the county. These critical areas include: ﬂood hazard areas, geologic hazard
areas, wetlands, shoreline and surface waters, habitat conservation areas, aquifer recharge areas
and scenic areas. Mapped critical areas can be found in Figures 1-11. In addition, the GMA
requires that jurisdictions give special attention to the preservation and enhancement of
anadromous ﬁsheries.

RCW 36.70A.070(9) outlines GMA climate change and resiliency requirements. Chapter 14 –
Climate Element contains most climate change and resilience policies in the Comprehensive Plan,
but other elements also include climate policies. Climate-related goals and policies within this


153                                                                    E NVIRONMENTAL E LEMENT
                                     CLARK2045
element are noted either as helping achieve greenhouse gas reduction [GHG], resilience [RES], or
both [GHG, RES]. Appendix I documents how these policies are consistent with GMA climate
change and resiliency requirements.

Policies outlined below are designed to meet the requirements of the GMA.


4.1        C O U N T Y W I D E P L A N N IN G P OL I C I ES
           4.1.1      Urban growth areas shall be established consistent with the protection of
                      the environment and the enhancement of the county's high quality of life,
                      including air and water quality and the availability of water. The
                      establishment of urban growth areas shall also be done in a manner
                      consistent with the preservation of land, sites and structures that have
                      historical or archeological signiﬁcance. [GHG, RES]

           4.1.2      The county and each municipality shall cooperate to ensure the
                      preservation and protection of natural resources, critical areas, open space
                      and recreational lands within and near the urban area through adequate
                      and compatible policies and regulations. These policies and regulations
                      shall provide for the long-term viability of terrestrial habitat functions and
                      natural watershed processes identiﬁed by scientiﬁcally-based assessment.
                      [RES]


C O U N T Y 20- Y E AR P L A N N I N G P O L I C I E S

GOAL:
Protect and conserve environmentally critical areas. [RES]

4.2        Policies

           4.2.1      Identify the variety and diversity of natural environments and incorporate
                      conservation of such areas into all land use decisions. [RES]

           4.2.2      Encourage habitat protection that will provide a diverse and sustainable
                      population of ﬁsh and wildlife. [RES]

           4.2.3      Protect groundwater and surface water as a resource for drinking water,
                      commerce, recreation and for wildlife under changing climate conditions
                      by:

                      •   Implementing a comprehensive and forward-looking stormwater
                          management program to reduce stormwater run-off and erosion,
                          promote stormwater inﬁltration, and reduce sources of non-point



E NVIRONMENTAL E LEMENT                                                                         154
                            CLARK2045
                  pollution under a variety of climate scenarios. (See additional
                  Stormwater policies in Chapter 6.)
              •   Implementing and enforcing critical areas regulations and the Shoreline
                  Master Program in accordance with state laws. (See Shoreline Master
                  Program policies in Chapter 13).
              •   Promoting and prioritizing the use of non-toxic pesticides and
                  fertilizers.
              •   Minimizing the amount of impervious area created by developments.
              •   Educating and incentivizing climate-resilient nature-scaping, water
                  conservation, and rainwater capture county-wide.
              •   Utilizing climate resilient, nature-based techniques for streambank and
                  watershed restoration on county land.
              •   Strategically acquiring lands for conservation and restoration. [RES]

      4.2.4   Reduce risk to life and property from hazards associated with development
              in geologically hazardous and ﬂoodplain areas by:

              •   prohibiting or discouraging development in areas of steep slopes or
                  other areas with high potential for geological hazards;
              •   limiting the removal of vegetation during development in order to
                  reduce storm runoff and erosion;
              •   requiring geotechnical studies to determine construction methods and
                  technologies necessary to further public safety in geologically
                  hazardous areas including landslide areas and steep slopes.
                  Development design and construction technology used shall be
                  appropriate to the soil limitations of the particular site; and,
              •   prohibiting development in the ﬂoodway. In the ﬂood fringe,
                  development impacts shall be mitigated through the use of appropriate
                  construction designs, methods and timing. Floodplain functions will be
                  protected to the extent possible. [RES]

      4.2.5   Limit clearing of vegetation from stream banks and restore the integrity of
              stream banks where degraded by development. [RES]

      4.2.6   Encourage the use of northwest native plants in landscaping, particularly
              adjacent to critical areas and discourage the use of invasive non-natives
              (e.g., English ivy). [RES]

      4.2.7   Coordinate with other jurisdictions and agencies to protect
              environmentally critical lands, particularly ecosystems and watershed
              processes that span jurisdictional boundaries. Focus on maintaining habitat
              connectivity by protecting priority wildlife areas, open spaces, and
              interconnecting corridors. Encourage consistency regarding methods of



155                                                         E NVIRONMENTAL E LEMENT
                                    CLARK2045
                     critical area deﬁnition, mapping, mitigation strategies and policy treatment.
                     [RES]

          4.2.8      Facilitate public education and outreach programs explaining the variety of
                     critical areas and habitat resources that exist in Clark County and the
                     beneﬁts and opportunities for conservation, protection and hazard
                     mitigation. [RES]

          4.2.9      Allow or promote ﬂexible density and lot conﬁgurations to protect critical
                     areas. [RES]

GOAL:
Identify, protect, preserve, and rewild: environmentally critical areas; riparian areas,
wetlands, prairies, and forests; and urban and rural open space. [RES]

4.3       Policies

          4.3.1      Improve ecosystem health and function.

                     •   Ensure no net loss of ecosystem composition, structure, and functions
                         in alignment with Growth Management Act requirements for wetland
                         and ﬁsh and wildlife habitat conservation areas (see Shoreline Master
                         Program for shoreline management area-speciﬁc policies) and strive for
                         net ecological gain to enhance climate resilience.
                     •   Ensure habitat connectivity and protect areas that provide for safe
                         passage of migratory species in alignment with Washington
                         Department of Fish and Wildlife guidance.
                     •   Strategically protect and ecologically enhance county lands. [RES]

          4.3.2      Community-wide restoration efforts and restoration projects on county-
                     owned properties must be developed and implemented such that species
                     composition, species conservation, and ecosystem processes are
                     sustainable. Advocacy for statewide programmatic support will be needed
                     to successfully achieve this on ecosystem scales. [RES]

          4.3.3      Restoration efforts should include native bee habitat protection and
                     expansion, and the county should consider pursuing a bee-friendly county
                     designation. [RES]

GOAL:
Protect and recover endangered and threatened species within Clark County. [RES]




E NVIRONMENTAL E LEMENT                                                                      156
                                    CLARK2045
4.4       Policies

          4.4.1      In cooperation with the Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife
                     (WDFW), other natural resource agencies, and Tribes, establish appropriate
                     avoidance, minimization and mitigation measures that functionally replace
                     or improve affected species habitat. [RES]

          4.4.2      Solicit review assistance from the WDFW, other natural resource agencies,
                     and Tribes for development proposals directly affecting state or federal
                     sensitive, threatened, or endangered species. [RES]

          4.4.3      County operations shall be conducted to meet the requirements outlined in
                     any species recovery program. [RES]

GOAL:
Protect, conserve and recover salmonids and all native aquatic species within Clark
County. [RES]

4.5       Policies

          4.5.1      Restore and maintain properly functioning ecosystem conditions for
                     salmonids in all county waters. Implement recovery plans adopted by the
                     National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) and the Lower Columbia Fish
                     Recovery Board. Support implementation of the Lower Columbia Salmon
                     Recovery and Fish & Wildlife Subbasin Plan, including the regional habitat
                     strategy. [RES]

          4.5.2      Salmon protections in both urban and rural areas shall be applied using
                     recovery strategies based on best available science and adaptive
                     management principles. [RES]

          4.5.3      Use incentives and public/private partnerships in land use activities to
                     encourage salmon-friendly development and habitat restoration efforts.
                     [RES]

          4.5.4      Restore streams and ﬁsh passageways in urban sub-basins and other
                     appropriate watershed basins. [RES]

          4.5.5      Coordinate with WSDOT and WDFW to plan and prioritize culvert
                     replacements to ensure ﬁsh passage barrier removal. Utilize the best
                     available local and regional data to inform this work, such as the Lower
                     Columbia Estuary Partnership initiative to centralize and prioritize ﬁsh
                     passage barriers for the lower Columbia River. [RES]




157                                                                 E NVIRONMENTAL E LEMENT
                                  CLARK2045
         4.5.6      Restore the structure and function of streams, ﬂoodplains, and wetlands to
                    increase habitat climate resilience for coldwater ﬁsh.

         For county-led projects, seek consultation from the Cowlitz Indian Tribe, regional
                    Tribal governments, and the Columbia River Inter-Tribal Fish Commission.
                    Prioritize restoration projects in collaboration with partner agencies and
                    community organizations and in alignment with the Clark County Shoreline
                    Restoration Plan and recovery plans adopted by the National Marine
                    Fisheries Service (NMFS) and the Lower Columbia Fish Recovery Board.
                    [RES]

GOAL:
Require sewer service within urban growth areas and discourage septic use within
urban growth areas.

4.6      Policies

         4.6.1      All new development in the urban area should be served by a connection to
                    a public sewer system.

         4.6.2      Septic systems in urban areas are to be phased out.

         4.6.3      In rural areas, wastewater treatment shall be provided by individual on-site
                    treatment systems or approved alternative sewage treatment technologies.

         4.6.4      Existing sewer systems in rural centers shall not be expanded beyond rural
                    center boundaries.

         4.6.5      Sewer lines shall not be extended except to correct existing health hazards
                    and provided that other means for treatment, such as state approved
                    alternative technologies, have been assessed and determined not to be
                    feasible due to environmental constraints.

GOAL:
Protect the waters of the county through a stormwater management program that
minimizes impacts from stormwater run-oﬀ. [RES]

4.7      Policies

         4.7.1      Minimize impacts to waters of the county through an effective stormwater
                    management program that includes stormwater basin planning and
                    promotion of on-site inﬁltration and low impact development to effectively
                    address stormwater in urban and rural areas. [RES]




E NVIRONMENTAL E LEMENT                                                                    158
                                  CLARK2045
         4.7.2      Maintain stormwater standards substantially equivalent to those in the
                    Washington DOE Stormwater Management Manual and continue to
                    monitor and update the stormwater control ordinance and related policies
                    and standards to reduce on-site run-off that implement and enhance
                    stormwater management. [RES]

         4.7.3      Continue to monitor and update the stormwater control ordinance and
                    related policies and standards to reduce on-site run-off that implement and
                    enhance stormwater management. [RES]

         4.7.4      Limit the clearing of vegetation in order to reduce storm water runoff and
                    erosion. [RES]

         4.7.5      Establish a coordinated approach with local jurisdictions to solve both
                    surface water and groundwater issues including the development of
                    regional storm water facilities. [RES]

         4.7.6      County operations shall be conducted to meet the requirements outlined in
                    the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit. [RES]

         4.7.7      Identify high priority retroﬁt areas to increase stormwater inﬁltration and
                    manage localized ﬂooding. [RES]

GOAL:
Manage water resources sustainably to meet the needs of the public and ecosystems
under changing climate conditions. [RES]

4.8      Policies

         4.8.1      Support projects that foster collaboration for providing water for people,
                    ﬁsh, and farms, such as water banks, irrigation modernization, and other
                    mechanisms to ensure sufﬁcient water supply for all. [RES]

         4.8.2      Evaluate the long-term adequacy of water delivery infrastructure to ensure
                    that changes in hydrological patterns (e.g., increases in ﬂooding frequency
                    or reduction of late-summer water availability associated with climate
                    change) can be anticipated and managed effectively and take actionable
                    next steps based on ﬁndings. [RES]

         4.8.3      Implement water conservation methods in all county-owned buildings,
                    landscaping, and parks and recreation areas. [RES]

GOAL:
Protect and enhance the shorelines of Clark County. [RES]



159                                                                E NVIRONMENTAL E LEMENT
                                   CLARK2045
4.9       Policies

          4.9.1      Clark County's Shoreline Master Program as included in Chapter 13 of this
                     comprehensive plan and as codiﬁed in CCC Chapter 40.460 shall be
                     implemented to protect and enhance the shorelines of Clark County. [RES]

          4.9.2      The county and its cities shall implement the mutually-adopted shoreline
                     goals, policies and shoreline designations through development regulations
                     contained in their respective shoreline master programs. Such programs
                     are designed to foster appropriate uses of and access to shorelines of the
                     state while protecting natural resources and shoreline ecological functions.
                     [RES] (Countywide Planning Policy)

GOAL:
Manage the parks and open space of Clark County consistent with protecting water
quality and critical areas and with enhancing the recovery of listed species. [RES]

4.10      Policies

          4.10.1     County Parks will be managed to meet the compliance and recovery
                     objectives as identiﬁed through the ESA process and the regional recovery
                     plan. [RES]

          4.10.2     Link urban and rural parks and open spaces to form functional wildlife
                     corridors, which then can be joined to outlying habitats. [RES]

GOAL:
Improve the region’s air quality. [GHG, RES]

4.11      Policies

          4.11.1     Clark County’s air resource is to be managed to preserve and enhance air
                     quality. [GHG, RES]

          4.11.2     Land use planning needs to incorporate air quality impacts as an additional
                     land use planning decision criteria. [GHG, RES]

          4.11.3     Partner with the Southwest Clean Air Agency and Department of Ecology
                     to monitor and improve air quality, particularly where it is worst.

                     This policy could involve community organizations and schools as partners
                     in monitoring and/or air quality improvement projects. [GHG, RES]




E NVIRONMENTAL E LEMENT                                                                       160
                                     CLARK2045
GOAL:
Minimize property damage from geological hazards and ﬂooding. [RES]

4.12       Policies

           4.12.1     Apply reasonable land use and building restrictions in ﬂood hazard areas to
                      minimize the loss of life and property damage. [RES]

           4.12.2     Work with the cities to coordinate a sustainable approach to natural hazard
                      mitigation on identiﬁed critical areas, open space and recreational lands to
                      lessen or eliminate hazards before an emergency happens. [RES]


GOAL:
Promote the advancement of energy eﬃciency, green building, waste reduction,
composting and recycling, solar and renewable energy use and local sustainable food
production. [GHG, RES]

4.13       Policies

           4.13.1     Clark County is committed to fostering a safe, secure future that conserves
                      natural resources while meeting basic human needs, including clean water,
                      air and food, along with shelter, education and employment. This
                      commitment to a sustainable future will be a key consideration in making
                      public policy, developing public programs, operating public facilities and
                      delivering public services. [GHG, RES]

           4.13.2     Clark County shall carry out its activities in a manner that can serve as an
                      example of environmentally sustainable practices. [GHG]

           4.13.3     County resources and purchasing power will be used to the extent
                      practicable to support environmentally sustainable business practices.
                      [GHG]

           4.13.4     County activities shall be periodically reviewed and updated to reﬂect best
                      management practices. [GHG, RES]

IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGIES
The following strategies are proposed as a means to achieve the goals and policies of the
Environmental Element. These are a range of strategies that the county is considering and some of
these should be implemented over time.

   •   Develop incentives that encourage open space, recreation and protection of the natural
       environment.


161                                                                   E NVIRONMENTAL E LEMENT
                                     CLARK2045
  •    Evaluate a variety of funding sources and their feasibility for acquisition of land and other
       programs to implement the policies within the Environmental, Rural and Natural Resource
       Elements.
  •    Develop and implement comprehensive stormwater management plans, including ongoing
       monitoring and funding for all watersheds in the county that comply with recovery
       objectives.
  •    Develop and implement a watershed protection implementation program that is salmon-
       friendly with the goals of resolving and preventing deterioration of all local water
       resources within identiﬁed watersheds. Develop and implement watershed plans that
       recognize watershed processes and that address impacts to wildlife habitat. The program
       shall:
       • protect groundwater;
       • safeguard drinking water quality;
       • protect surface water quality;
       • insure groundwater recharge;
       • control urban ﬂooding;
       • enhance wetland habitat; and
       • establish local funding mechanisms for water quality and water resource protection.
   •   Develop and implement a protocol to identify natural watershed-wide processes, their
       inter-relationships reach by reach and how they might be degraded by human activities.
       The protocol will be designed to associate the watershed processes with the various
       environmental mandates imposed by the state and federal governments on Clark County
       and the jurisdictions within it. The use of a standardized assessment protocol should
       streamline permitting, promote efﬁcient monitoring and focus restoration and mitigation
       projects.
   •   Update ordinances and other regulations to meet salmon recovery goals.
   •   Investigate the use of a Public Beneﬁt Rating System of property taxation to encourage
       development, recording and implementation of Stewardship Plans on parcels essential to
       salmon recovery or other watershed processes.
   •   Develop measures countywide to ensure erosion and sediment control for new
       development, re-development and excavation projects.
   •   Develop regional detention and on-site disposal system.
   •   Adopt the use of land use planning software that analyzes air quality impacts of proposed
       land use actions.
   •   Support educational programs and provide resources for landowners to implement
       wildlife-friendly practices, such as wildlife-friendly fencing or native habitat restoration.
   •   Where necessary, wildlife overpasses or underpasses should be considered to maintain
       connectivity between habitats and allow for animal movement.
   •   The county will do the following to implement its sustainability policy:
       • Lead by example;
       • Encourage innovation in both public and private pursuits;




E NVIRONMENTAL E LEMENT                                                                        162
                                   CLARK2045
      •   Promote and demonstrate efﬁcient and effective use of renewable and consumable
          resources;
      •   Collaborate with public and private partners on projects aimed at sustainability;
      •   Continuously enhance our perspective and expertise in making sustainable choices on
          behalf of the citizens and communities of Clark County; and
      •   Identify and pursue new opportunities that promote sustainable practices.




163                                                              E NVIRONMENTAL E LEMENT
CHAPTER
TRANSPORTATION ELEMENT
                         5
                                     CLARK2045

CHAPTER 5
Transportation Element

INTRODUCTION
The Transportation Element of the Clark County Comprehensive Growth Management Plan
2025-2045 (20-Year Plan) provides the community guiding framework for transportation
investment and priorities over the next 20 years. The Growth Management Act (GMA) requires
that the Transportation Element be prepared to implement, and be consistent with, the Land Use
Element. The Transportation Element helps to ensure that Clark County will be able to
accommodate increased population growth and changes to land use over time, while it also aims to
promote healthy, economically vibrant and livable communities through the development of a
safe, accessible and efﬁcient multimodal transportation system that is not dependent on vehicles
to move people throughout the county.

The Transportation Element identiﬁes speciﬁc transportation projects for the urban and rural
areas of the unincorporated county to improve mobility and roadway safety, as listed in Appendix
A: Transportation Capital Facilities Plan. In addition to identifying projects, the Transportation
Element also recommends various implementation strategies to guide the county in its
participation in regional transportation planning. These implementation strategies provide
guidance on such issues as:

   •   Access management;
   •   Active transportation;
   •   Air quality conformance;
   •   Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) transportation transition plan;
   •   Arterials, highways and transit service multimodal level of service standards;
   •   Freight and goods mobility;
   •   Land use-transportation concurrency;
   •   Transit emphasis corridors;
   •   Transportation Demand Management (TDM) (maximizes the efﬁciency of transportation
       networks by encouraging people to choose options other than driving alone to travel).

Appendix A: Transportation Capital Facilities Plan includes an estimate of expenditures and
revenues associated with implementing recommended transportation improvements. The related
ﬁnancial strategy in Appendix A ensures needed transportation improvements are funded. The
Transportation Element can be amended and supplemented by special studies that later provide
more detailed policy direction and project recommendations. These special studies would




165                                                                 T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
maintain consistency with the countywide Transportation Element, while also qualifying and
reﬁning its recommendations.

GROWTH MANAGEMENT ACT
The Washington State Growth Management Act (GMA) provides legal and policy guidance to the
county regarding preparation of the Transportation Element. The GMA requires a Transportation
Element that implements and is consistent with the Land Use Element of the 20-Year Plan per
RCW 36.70A.070(6). A Transportation Element must include:

   •   Land use assumptions used in estimating and forecasting travel;
   •   Estimated Multimodal Level of Service (MMLOS) impacts to state-owned transportation
       facilities;
   •   Facilities and service needs, including:
       o An inventory of air, water and ground transportation facilities and services;
       o MMLOS standards for all locally owned active transportation facilities, arterials and
           transit routes;
       o MMLOS standards for state owned transportation facilities;
       o Speciﬁc actions and requirements for bringing locally owned transportation facilities
           and services into compliance with the MMLOS standards;
       o Forecasts of multimodal transportation demand and needs for 10 years based on the
           adopted land use plan;
       o Identiﬁcation of state and local transportation system needs to equitably meet current
           and future travel demands; and
       o An ADA transition plan;
   •   Finance, including:
       o An analysis of funding capability to judge identiﬁed system needs against probable
           funding resources;
       o A multi-year ﬁnancing plan that balances needs against available funding; and
       o A discussion of how additional funding will be raised, or land use assumptions
           reassessed to ensure MMLOS standards are met;
   •   Intergovernmental coordination and impact assessment;
   •   Travel Demand-Management (TDM) strategies; and
   •   An active transportation component.

Consistency between the Land Use and Transportation Elements of the 20-Year Plan is of
particular importance. Planned land use must be reﬂected in the travel forecasts to evaluate the
impacts of development. The transportation improvements and implementation measures within
the Transportation Element must adequately support planned land use at adopted MMLOS
standards.

MMLOS standards serve as a tool to gauge performance and help assess the adequacy of the
transportation system, including sidewalks, bicycle lanes, transit and vehicles, and guide the



T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT                                                                         166
                                      CLARK2045
current and future improvement projects in the 20-year transportation Capital Facility Plan (CFP)
as listed in Appendix A. These projects are prioritized based on the evaluation criteria in Appendix
A, which relate back to the Goals and Policies found in the 20-Year Plan.

Consistency between the county’s overall Transportation Element, the cities’ comprehensive
plans, the state’s highway system plan, regional transportation plans and transit development
programs, needs to be ensured through intergovernmental coordination. The applicable facilities
and services are those that serve travel needs and have impacts beyond the jurisdiction(s) within
which they are located. The Countywide Planning Policies, noted in the Goals and Policies section
of this chapter, are to provide procedural guidance to the county and cities to help ensure
consistent transportation planning and implementation.


R E L A T I O N T O O T H E R E L E M E N T S O F T H E 20-Y E AR P L AN
The Growth Management Act (GMA) requires that the Transportation Element be implemented
and consistent with other elements of the 20-Year Plan and must include the county’s plan to
ﬁnance identiﬁed local system improvements. The policies and performance standards contained
within this element complement the Land Use Element by providing for transportation needs and
infrastructure in urban centers, addressing the needs of neighborhoods and adapting the rural
transportation system in support of those policies.

Chapter 4 – Environmental Element contains policies related to restoring streams for ﬁsh
passageways and coordination with WSDOT and WDFW to plan and prioritize culvert
replacements to ensure ﬁsh passage barrier removal. Currently, WDFW has identiﬁed 171
county-owned ﬁsh passage barriers. It also includes air quality goals and policies.

Chapter 7 – Parks, Recreation and Open Space Element contains policies related to safe
pedestrian and bicycle routes, and for providing an interconnected network.

Chapter 11 – Community Design Element contains a policy about separating vehicular and
pedestrian circulation using vegetative buffers.

Chapter 14 – Climate Element contains most climate change and resilience policies in the 20-Year
Plan, but other elements also include climate policies. Climate-related goals and policies within
this element are noted in the goals and policies section of this chapter. See Chapter 14 for a
comprehensive discussion of climate policies, some of which overlap with the Transportation
Element.

RCW 36.70A.070(9) outlines GMA climate change and resiliency requirements. The
Transportation Element intersects the requirements of both the resilience and greenhouse gas
emissions reduction sub-element pieces of the Climate Element. Core requirements of the
Climate Element are outlined in Chapter 14 – Climate Element; however, some of the Climate




167                                                                  T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
Element requirements intersect with the Transportation Element. These requirements include the
identiﬁcation of actions that will:

   •   Identify, protect, and enhance community resiliency to climate change impacts, including
       social, economic, and built environment factors, that support adaptation to climate
       impacts consistent with environmental justice.
   •   Result in reductions in overall greenhouse gas emissions generated by transportation and
       land use within the jurisdiction but without increasing greenhouse gas emissions
       elsewhere in the state.
   •   Result in reductions in per capita vehicle miles traveled (VMT) within the jurisdiction but
       without increasing greenhouse gas emissions elsewhere in the state.
   •   Prioritize reductions that beneﬁt overburdened communities to maximize the co-beneﬁts
       of reduced air pollution and environmental justice.


R E L A T I O N S T O O T H E R C O U N T Y P L A N N I N G P O L IC Y D O C U M E N T S
The 20-Year Plan, including the Transportation Element, is part of a hierarchy including the Clark
County countywide planning policies, the Community Framework Plan, the 2010 Clark County
Bicycle and Pedestrian Master Plan, Clark County zoning ordinance (Title 40, Development Code),
the Clark County Arterial Atlas, the 20-Year Capital Facility Plan, the ADA Transition Plan, and
related implementation documents. The 20-Year Plan, and Transportation Element within, provide
detailed policies for managing growth consistent with the mandates of GMA and the direction of
the Community Framework Plan. Some of the key state, regional and local transportation projects,
programs, plans and studies taken into consideration with development of the Transportation
Element are listed below.

WASHINGTON STATE
   •   The Cascadia High-Speed Rail Study proposes to connect people and communities, increase
       economic competitiveness, and improve quality of life across the Cascadia megaregion.
       This fast, safe, predictable way to travel would connect the metro areas of Vancouver, B.C.,
       Seattle, WA, Portland, OR, and points in between and beyond. Rather than relying on
       congested highways or increasing air trafﬁc, the high-speed rail project offers a sustainable
       alternative to traveling greater distances quickly and reliably.
   •   The Washington Transportation Plan (WTP) is the state’s long-range transportation plan,
       based on the Legislature’s six policy goals: economic vitality, preservation, safety, mobility,
       environmental & health, and stewardship. The related policy plan, 2040 & Beyond, provides
       statewide policy recommendations to the Legislature. The related implementation plan,
       Washington Transportation Plan, Phase 2 – Implementation 2017-2040, applies key policy
       recommendations for the WTP to further develop the state’s complex transportation
       system.
   •   Washington’s 2024 Highway System Plan serves as a vital component of the statewide
       multimodal transportation plan, outlining long-term program needs, ﬁnancing strategies



T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT                                                                         168
                                     CLARK2045
      and system improvements. The plan prioritizes the following funding approaches for
      WSDOT facilities as follows:
          o First fund operations maintenance, capital preservation and critical programs such
              as required ﬁsh passage projects and support programs.
          o Then for any remaining funds, $2 should be spent on safety and efﬁciency
              strategies for every $1 spent on highway expansion projects.
  •   Washington’s Strategic Highway Safety Plan: Target Zero is a plan with the goal to reduce the
      number of trafﬁc deaths and serious injuries on Washington’s roadways to zero by the year
      2030. It serves as the state’s Strategic Highway Safety Plan.
  •   The Washington State Active Transportation Plan—2020 and Beyond is a compass for creating
      the future of walking, biking, and rolling on or across state highways in Washington. It is
      used in decisions to help connect people to where they want to go, whether they use active
      transportation for the whole trip or just a part of it, such as walking to a bus stop, riding a
      bike to work, or rolling home from a terminal.
  •   The 2022 Washington State Freight System Plan supports Washington, the second-most
      trade-dependent state per capita in the USA. Washington relies heavily on an efﬁcient
      freight transportation network. In 2022, the freight system supported 1.5 million jobs in
      freight-dependent industries in the state, moving 603 million tons of cargo with an
      estimated value of $707 billion and $212.7 billion in Gross Domestic Product (GPD).
      Freight and goods are shipped into, out of, and around Washington by truck, rail, air,
      pipeline and water. The 2026 Freight System Plan update is underway.

SOUTHWEST WASHINGTON REGION
  •   The Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) for Clark County (2024), prepared by the Southwest
      Washington Regional Transportation Council (RTC), is the region’s principal transportation
      document and provides a complete and up-to-date description of regional transportation
      facilities and issues in the County. The 2024 RTP identiﬁes future regional transportation
      system needs to the year 2045, outlining strategies and improvements necessary to
      maintain adequate mobility within and throughout Clark County and must maintain
      consistency with local plans and policies.
  •   The Regional Safety Action Plan for Clark County, (2023) was developed by RTC to help
      identify transportation focused safety needs and improvements across Clark County. The
      plan takes the Safe System Approach, which acknowledges that deaths and serious injury
      crashes are unacceptable, humans are vulnerable and make mistakes, and that
      transportation networks must be proactive about providing multiple layers of protections
      for all users, whether they travel by foot, car, bike, transit or with the help of a mobility
      device.
  •   C-TRAN’s 2021-2026 Transit Development Plan (TDP) outlines the policy and ﬁnancial basis
      for system operations and facilities.
  •   C-TRAN: 2030 (2016) is a long-range, comprehensive strategy for enhancing public
      transportation for Clark County residents over 20 years. C-TRAN’s plan is designed to
      respond to growing transportation needs and the need to provide expanded, reliable, and


169                                                                  T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT
                                     CLARK2045
       safe service. Maintaining and expanding transit service is vital for ensuring the economic
       vitality and quality of life of the region. C-TRAN: 2045 update is underway.

CLARK COUNTY
   •   The Clark County Bicycle and Pedestrian Master Plan (2010) provides a path to make it safer
       and more convenient for people to get to major destinations in our region on foot or by
       bicycle. The plan identiﬁes ways to improve the transportation network by integrating
       existing sidewalks, bike lanes, and trails. The plan points out that this will require design
       standards that work well with Clark County’s transportation network for motor vehicles.
   •   Clark County Commute Trip Reduction Plan (2025-2029) calls for a reduction in drive-alone
       trips. Increased density and population demand more transit and more multi-modal
       networks. For the transportation system to accommodate more people living in Clark
       County and work efﬁciently and sustainably, we need people to travel by non-drive-alone
       modes, and we need people to live in more dense transit-oriented housing with less
       parking.
   •   Clark County Local Road Safety Plan (2025) identiﬁes trends, roadway risk factors, and
       infrastructure deﬁciencies across the county by analyzing collision data. The plan
       prioritizes high-need locations and recommends low-cost, infrastructure-based
       treatments to reduce fatal and serious-injury collisions. This approach supports a safer and
       more reliable transportation network by directing investments toward the most critical
       safety concerns in Clark County.
   •   The Clark County Parks, Recreation and Open Space Plan (PROST) guides how the county
       cares for and invests in our park system, including trails. Adopted in 2022, this plan is
       updated every 6 years. The 2028-2035 update effort is underway.
   •   Clark County Regional Trails and Bikeways Plan (2006) guides the development and design of
       an interconnected trail and bikeway system within Clark County. The plan primarily
       focuses on shared off road facilities exclusively for non-motorized usage that serve as real
       transportation alternatives, not just recreation.

Standards such as road details, road classiﬁcations and concurrency are included in the
implementing ordinances. The 20-Year Plan is the controlling document and where the
implementing ordinances conﬂict with the 20-Year Plan or fail to implement its policies, the
implementing ordinances shall be amended to be consistent with the 20-Year Plan.


R E L A T I O N T O C IT Y C O M P R E H E N SI V E P L AN S
The Transportation Element, and other 20-Year Plan elements, will be the governing document for
all unincorporated lands within Clark County as shown in Figure 33 in Appendix B.
Unincorporated lands within adopted urban growth areas will be subject to county plans and
ordinances, although cities will be consulted and city policies may be considered.
Interjurisdictional provisions are included in Chapter 15 – Procedural Guidelines Element of this
document.



T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT                                                                       170
                                        CLARK2045
LAND USE ASSUMPTIONS

D E S C R I P T I O N O F H I S T O R I C G R OW T H & D E V E L OP M E N T
Clark County was the fastest-growing county in the state in the 1990s and was second-fastest in
the early 2000s. Between 2010 and 2020, county population grew from 425,363 to 503,311.
During this period, Clark County grew by 77,948 residents or by 18.33 percent.

As of April 1, 2023, the OFM estimates Clark County had an estimated population of 527,400 and
a total of 207,043 housing units. In 2023, the Washington State Employment Security Department
estimated that Clark County had 180,900 jobs.


G R O W T H P R OJ EC T I O N S
The OFM provides counties and cities in Washington state with county-level growth forecasts to
accommodate their planning processes under GMA. The OFM has estimated a population
projection for 2045 ranging from a low of 576,151 to a high of 791,809. The middle series
projection, the one considered most likely by OFM, is 698,416. On May 2, 2023, the County
Council adopted a 2045 population projection of 718,154 to be used for the 20-Year Plan.

On August 8, 2023, the County Council adopted a 2045 employment projection of 269,000 jobs to
be used for the 20-Year Plan. Most employment growth is expected to occur within the
incorporated cities; however, the county will plan for its share of job growth in unincorporated
UGAs and rural areas.

Based on the preferred land use alternative selected on April 28, 2026, the county is responsible
for providing 32,960 housing units and 15,940 jobs in the unincorporated portion of Vancouver’s
UGA and 3,572 housing units and 4,405 jobs in the rural area.

FACILITIES & SERVICES NEEDS

I N V E N T OR Y O F A I R , W A T E R & G R O U N D T R AN S P OR T A T I O N
F A C IL I T I E S & S ER V I C E S

The Transportation Element is required to include an inventory of air, water, and ground
transportation facilities and services, including transit alignments, active transportation facilities,
and general aviation airport facilities, to deﬁne existing capital facilities and travel levels to inform
future planning. This inventory must include state-owned transportation facilities within the
county’s jurisdictional boundary. The inventory establishes baseline conditions to serve as a
starting point for the identiﬁcation of current and future system needs.




171                                                                      T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT
                                       CLARK2045
The transportation system in Clark County consists of ﬁve components which keep people and
freight moving throughout the County: airports; marine ports, roadways for motorized vehicles
(cars, trucks, buses and other vehicles); active transportation infrastructure for nonmotorized
facilities serving pedestrians, bicyclists and wheeled mobility users; and rail lines.

AIR TRANSPORTATION
An important example of an economic beneﬁt that can be derived from airports is the ability to
attract compatible land use developments (e.g., commercial or industrial) on or near airport
property. In many instances, land immediately on or adjacent to an airport is ﬂat, easily developed
and relatively inexpensive when compared to more centrally located business district sites.

One of the several requirements of the GMA is that the comprehensive plan of each jurisdiction
should include a process for identifying and siting essential public facilities, including airports and
state and regional transportation facilities, per RCW 36.70A.200.

Local
Publicly owned general aviation airﬁelds within Clark County include Pearson Field and Grove
Field. Pearson Field, located east of downtown Vancouver off SR-14, is operated by the city of
Vancouver and covers 134 acres owned by the National Park Service. Pearson is designated as a
part of the regional transportation system. Grove Field is a Basic Utility Stage I Airport operated
by the Port of Camas-Washougal. Located in the Ferm Prairie area 5 miles north of downtown
Camas, it has a 2,832-foot paved illuminated runway, an above-ground self-fueling station and
hanger space for over 70 aircraft. In addition, Clark County is home to several private airﬁelds.

Regional
Air passenger transportation service for Clark County is primarily provided by the Portland
International Airport (PDX), located in Portland, Oregon, to the southwest of the I-205 Glenn
Jackson Bridge. This is a regional airport with domestic and international passenger and freight
(cargo) service. The sixty-six passenger airlines serving PDX include Air Canada, Alaska Airlines,
America West, American, Condor, Delta, Frontier, Hawaiian, Icelandair, Jet Blue, Pen Air, Sea Port
Airlines, Southwest, Spirit Airlines, United, Virgin America and Volaris. The eight air freight
carriers serving PDX include American Airlines, AmeriFlight, DHL, Empire, Federal Express,
Frontier, Hawaiian, United UPS and Western Air Express. In 2024, PDX reported over 17.5 million
passengers and 200,000 aircraft operations.

WATER (MARINE) TRANSPORTATION
The Columbia River provides a navigable waterway for the Clark County region as part of the
Columbia/Snake River system. Clark County has three port districts, which provide for most of
Clark County’s water transportation services: the Port of Vancouver USA, the Port of Camas-
Washougal and the Port of Ridgeﬁeld. Only the Port of Vancouver serves ocean-going ships and
provides commercial waterborne shipping facilities. Barge trafﬁc operates from the Portland-



T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT                                                                           172
                                      CLARK2045
Vancouver metropolitan area to eastern Washington and Oregon. The freight routes are shown in
Figure 5.01: Freight Lines.

Port of Camas-Washougal
The Port of Camas - Washougal provides facilities and services for land, air, water-based
commerce and to enhance employment and recreational opportunities, contributing to the quality
of life in the community. The 430-acre industrial park, located south of SR-14 by Index and 27th to
32nd Streets, was created in 1966 when the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers created a 5.5-mile levee
along the Columbia River. It is home to an average of 48 businesses with approximately 1,000
employees and an annual payroll exceeding $30 million. Steigerwald Commerce Center, the 120+
acres east of the Industrial Park, is the site of future development. The marina has moorage to
accommodate 350-plus boats and a 4-lane launch ramp. The Port district also operates Grove
Field Airport.

Port of Ridgefield
The Port of Ridgeﬁeld is located about 15 miles north of the City of Vancouver. The Port’s taxing
district extends over 57 square miles, and the district is bisected by the I-5 corridor. The Port
adopted the Port of Ridgeﬁeld Comprehensive Plan in 2008. Port owned assets include a 41-acre
site on Lake River, 3 miles from I-5, with a programmed bridge project over the BNSF rail lines to
enable access to 18 acres of land in the 78-acre Ridgeﬁeld Industrial Park located at the southwest
quadrant of I-5 and Pioneer Street. The Port-developed Ridgeﬁeld Industrial Park is now home to
over twenty businesses providing some 800 jobs.

Port of Vancouve r USA
The Port of Vancouver USA is situated at the terminus of the Columbia River’s deep draft channel
and forms a natural gateway to the river-barge ports of eastern Oregon/Washington and northern
Idaho. The Port operates international cargo docks. It is the third-largest port in the state of
Washington. It has ﬁve marine freight terminals, provides 13 deep-draft vessel berths and has two
140-metric ton mobile harbor cranes to enable heavy lift cargo.

The Port is located within 2 miles of I-5 and is also served by the Burlington Northern Santa Fe and
Union Paciﬁc Railroads, the Canadian National and the Canadian Paciﬁc railroads. The Port has
800 acres of developed industrial and marine property with over 50 industrial tenants. Over 2,300
people are directly employed by these businesses and nearly 17,000 jobs are connected to port
activities. The Port has over 500 additional acres of land for future development. Work began in
2004 on the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) process for this additional land’s
development as part of the Port’s Economic Development & Conservation Plan. The Port’s future
development includes the Columbia Gateway area. The Port focused attention on rail access
improvement with a Simulation and Access Study. The Port is phasing the implementation of the
West Vancouver Freight Access Project.




173                                                                  T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT
                                CLARK2045
Figure 5.01: Freight Lines 33




33
     Source: WSDOT


T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT                    174
                                          CLARK2045
GROUND TRANSPORTATION

Active Transportation
Active transportation refers to any form of human-powered transportation, including people
walking, using mobility devices, or riding bikes. Active transportation modes include wheelchairs,
assisted mobility devices, two-wheel bikes, cargo bikes, e-bikes, inline skates, scooters, and
skateboards, among others. In addition to providing a low-cost and accessible form of
transportation, active transportation facilities offer many additional beneﬁts to communities that
aim to create an environment where these forms of transportation are convenient, safe and
normal. Active Transportation Facilities are deﬁned in RCW 36.70A.030 as “facilities provided for
the safety and mobility of active transportation users including, but not limited to, trails as deﬁned
in RCW 47.30.005, sidewalks, bike lanes, shared-use paths, and other facilities in the public right-
of-way.”

In 2023, the Washington State Legislature - Joint Transportation Committee found that 30
percent (140,807) of Clark County residents do not drive, yet historically the county has focused
on providing transportation infrastructure for motorized vehicles. 34 This coupled with the large
number of cul-de-sacs, dead end roads and private roads that do not meet public local road
standards make maneuvering around the community in anything other than a motorized vehicle a
challenge.

Bicycle
Existing bicycle facilities on the County’s locally-owned transportation network are mostly
located in the southwestern portion of the county, primarily in Vancouver’s unincorporated UGA,
as shown in Figure 5.02: Existing County Bicycle Facilities. The county-owned network is made up
of a variety of facilities including the following estimates (linear miles):

      •   50 miles of conventional striped bike lanes,
      •   6 miles of paved shared-use paths (in street rights-of-way),
      •   2 miles of buffered bike lanes,
      •   14 miles of paved shoulder facilities, and
      •   258 miles of roadways with no dedicated facility where future facilities are planned.

There is a network of designated bike routes throughout the county. However, they are primarily
on roadways with moderate to high trafﬁc volumes and vehicle speeds that may not be
comfortable and safe for users of all ages and abilities.

Pedestrian
The County’s policy is to construct sidewalks on both sides of the street in Vancouver’s
unincorporated UGA and rural centers, although there are many places in the county where


34
     Nondrivers: Population, Demographics & Analysis by Toole Design, January 31, 2023


175                                                                       T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT
                                         CLARK2045
sidewalks do not exist or the sidewalk is only located on one side of the street. Prior to 1980
(Ordinance 1980-12-04), sidewalks were not required on public streets as part of capital
improvement projects and private land development permits. In rural areas, pedestrians usually
travel on the roadway shoulder, which is often unpaved.

The county-owned roadway network in Vancouver’s unincorporated UGA and all rural centers
requires an additional 464 miles of missing sidewalks, including 92 miles of sidewalks on collector
and arterial roadways, to achieve a fully-connected sidewalk network. Missing sidewalks restrict
movement by members of the community with disabilities.

The County is developing an ADA Transition Plan that will identify where the existing sidewalk
facilities do not meet the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) standards and develop a path
towards providing the missing infrastructure. See Appendix L – Americans with Disabilities Act
Transition Plan. Oftentimes the sidewalks are too narrow, include physical barriers, have missing
or non-standard ramps, and lack safe crossings. Table 5.01: Missing Urban Sidewalk Length by
Roadway Classiﬁcation lists the missing urban sidewalk needs for the county-owned network.

The majority of the County’s urban missing sidewalk network, 347.1 linear miles, are on the
County’s local streets that primarily serve residential areas. The local streets should be designed
for all users, including children and those with disabilities, to be able to safely walk, bike, roll, and
access transit. Most local streets are developed and improved by new private development.

New development in rural centers and Vancouver’s unincorporated UGA is required to construct
sidewalks as part of infrastructure improvements. Road modiﬁcation requests, boundary line
adjustments, project phasing and proportionality analysis have allowed development to occur
without providing the needed infrastructure. Historically, ﬁscal accountability associated with
road modiﬁcation decisions has not been part of the county’s decision-making process, and the
cost is transferred to the taxpayers. Figure 5.03: County Missing Sidewalks, shows where the
missing sidewalks are located.

Table 5.01: Missing Urban Sidewalk Length by Roadway Classification in VUGA 35
 Roadway Classiﬁcation          Missing Sidewalk Length        Missing Sidewalk Length
                                (feet)                         (miles)
 Principal Arterials                                11,224.4                        2.1
 Minor Arterial                                    120,722.9                       22.9
 Collectors                                        274,941.6                       52.1
 Local Access                                    1,832,715.0                      347.1
 Total Missing Urban                             2,239,603.9                      424.2




35
     Clark County Public Works Inventory, 2019




T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT                                                                              176
                                             CLARK2045
Figure 5.02: Existing County Bicycle Facilities 36




36
     Source: 2023 Clark County Inventory


177                                                      T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT
                                           CLARK2045
Figure 5.03: County Missing Sidewalks 37




37
     Source: 2019 Clark County inventory


T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT                               178
                                      CLARK2045
Trails
Beyond bike lanes, there are scattered trail segments, many of which are unpaved, that contribute
to the bicycle infrastructure. A greater portion of the trail infrastructure is available to
pedestrians.

Clark County has a developing system of trails that augment bicycle and pedestrian infrastructure.
Some of the most signiﬁcant regional trails include Burnt Bridge Creek Trail, Columbia River
Renaissance Trail, Discovery Historic Loop, Ellen Davis Trail, Lacamas Heritage Trail, Padden
Parkway Trail and Salmon Creek Trail. While the responsibility for development and maintenance
of these trails is part of the County’s Parks and Nature program, transportation planning efforts
encourage further connectivity through the transportation network.

Transit

Clark County Public Transit Benefit Area Authority (C-TRAN)
C-TRAN is the primary provider of public transit services in Clark County. The agency was formed
by a public vote in 1980 and founded in 1981, and currently serves the municipalities of
Vancouver, Camas, Washougal, Battle Ground, Ridgeﬁeld, La Center, the town of Yacolt and areas
of unincorporated Vancouver. C-TRAN is governed by a nine-member board of directors that
includes three Clark County Councilors, four Council members from the City of Vancouver, and
two members who represent the cities of Battle Ground, Camas, La Center, Ridgeﬁeld, Ridgeﬁeld
and the town of Yacolt.

In 2024, C-TRAN provided 4.97 million rides, continuing an ongoing post-pandemic recovery
trend. C-TRAN’s facilities are shown in Figure 5.04: C-Tran Service Routes and Supporting
Infrastructure.

C-TRAN’s transit infrastructure and services are found in their 2021-2026 Strategic Plan and the
2016 update to C-TAN 2030. C-TRAN is in the process of developing a 2045 vision that includes
numerous new routes that don’t currently exist, plus existing routes with either modiﬁed or
improved service. The vision also includes capital projects on some local routes.

C-TRAN’s existing system includes four transit centers: 1) Fisher’s Landing, 2) Mill Plain, 3) 99th
Street at Stockford Village and 4) Vancouver Mall, as well as nine park-and-ride lots. The park and
ride facilities provide more than 2,200 parking spaces at: 1) Andresen, 2) BPA Ross complex, 3)
Camas/Washougal, 4) Evergreen, 5) Fisher’s Landing Transit Center, 6) La Center, 7) 99th Street
Transit Center at Stockford Village, 8) Ridgeﬁeld and 9) Salmon Creek.

The preliminary ridership number for 2025 is 5,280,313, a 6.3 percent increase from 2024 and the
ﬁrst time since the COVID-19 pandemic that total ridership has exceeded 5 million.




179                                                                  T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT
                                          CLARK2045
Figure 5.04: C-TRAN Service Routes and Supporting Infrastructure 38




38
     Source: C-TRAN


T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT                                              180
                                       CLARK2045
Fixed Route Services
C-TRAN operates seven days a week and holidays to serve the greater Vancouver area. Operating
hours are generally 4:30 a.m. to 9:30 p.m. on weekdays (with key urban routes operating until
midnight), 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. on Saturdays and 8:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. on Sundays/holidays. C-
TRAN provides ﬁxed route service on 23 local routes operating in Clark County, 2 Bus Rapid
Transit (BRT) routes, and 3 regional express commuter routes between Clark County and
Portland. The two BRT routes, located in the city of Vancouver, represented approximately 37
percent of total ridership. In 2027, the new ‘Vine on Highway 99’, a third BRT route, will provide
more efﬁcient service between downtown Vancouver and the WSU-Vancouver campus in
Vancouver’s unincorporated UGA.

C-TRAN also provides commuter service into TriMet’s downtown Portland transit mall and
connecting service to the MAX light rail system at the Parkrose/Sumner Transit Center off I-205
and the Delta Park – Vanport Transit Center off I-5. These access points allow C-TRAN passengers
to reach destinations in the Portland metropolitan area, including the Portland International
Airport. All C-TRAN routes meet Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) accessibility requirements.

Connectors
C-TRAN's Connector provides the cities of Camas, La Center and Ridgeﬁeld with fully accessible
dial-a-ride (reservation-based service) and scheduled stop service (no reservation required) at
designated stops within the service areas. Rides are provided on a ﬁrst-come, ﬁrst-served basis.

Shopping Shuttle
C-TRAN's Shopping Shuttle provides residents of Smith Tower, Lewis & Clark and Columbia House
apartments direct access to major shopping destinations, twice monthly.

Paratransit
C-TRAN's paratransit service, known as C-VAN, meets ADA requirements for complementary
paratransit service. C-VAN provides wheelchair accessible, curb-to-curb services for elderly and
disabled persons who cannot use ﬁxed route services. C-VAN currently operates within the
Vancouver urban growth area (UGA) and within three-quarters-of-a-mile of ﬁxed routes operating
outside the Vancouver UGA.

Cowlitz Indian Tribe

Cowlitz Tribe Transit Service
Cowlitz Tribe Transit Service is a public transit service available to rural residents in South Lewis
(Centralia Amtrak Station) and Cowlitz Counties who live up to 20 miles from the Interstate 5
corridor. Rides include access to life-sustaining and non-life-sustaining medical appointments,
shopping, and cultural or quality-of-life activities.




181                                                                    T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
Expanded Medical Transport
Expanded Medical Transport Program is a public transport program available to rural residents in
Clark, Cowlitz and Lewis Counties who are over the age of 50 and/or individuals with disabilities.
The Expanded Medical Transport Program provides rides north to Chehalis and south to
Vancouver to increase access to medical appointments such as specialty medicine, diagnostic
facilities, cancer treatment centers and hospitals.

Tribal Medicaid Transport
Tribal Medicaid Transport is for Indian Health Services beneﬁciaries and their descendants who
hold a current ProviderOne card and need transportation to medically necessary appointments.
Individuals must live within a 60-mile radius of the Cowlitz Indian Tribe Health Clinic, meet the
Medicaid criteria and have exhausted all other transportation options.

Skamania County Transit
Skamania County Public Transportation provides two transportation programs – Transit and Dial-
a-Ride – both operated by Skamania County Senior Services. The transit bus operates Monday
through Friday (excluding holidays). Buses travel between Stevenson and Carson and the Fisher’s
Landing Transit Center in the city of Vancouver, allowing linkage to C-TRAN and access to the
Portland/Vancouver metro area.

The Dial-a-Ride service is targeted toward seniors, people with disabilities and low-income
people. Rides are coordinated at least 72-hours in advance through the Medicaid Transportation
Broker.

Community in Motion Human Services Council Community in Motion’s Transportation Brokerage
arranges rides for elderly, low income and people with medical needs and disabilities, through
contracts and arrangements with a variety of transportation providers. This service is highly
valued in the community by people that have no access to C-TRAN or C-VAN services or for people
for whom regular transit service does not work.

Rail
There are two mainline rail lines, both owned by Burlington Northern Santa Fe (BNSF) Railway,
that run through Clark County. The mainlines carry both freight and passengers. In addition, the
Lewis and Clark Railway (LINC), also known as the Chelatchie Prairie Railroad, is a 33-mile short-
line railroad owned by, and located entirely within, Clark County. This short-line carries both
freight and recreational passengers on separate portions of the line.

Freight
The BNSF Seattle/Vancouver line is in excellent condition and has 70 to 80 trains operating in the
corridor daily. The BNSF Vancouver/Eastern Washington line is also in excellent condition and
handles about 40 trains daily. Union Paciﬁc Railroad operates some freight trains to Tacoma and
Seattle on BNSF’s lines.



T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT                                                                       182
                                     CLARK2045
In 2012, the Lewis and Clark Railway was leased by the Portland Vancouver Junction Railroad
Company (PVJR), a private operator, for the portion of the line from Vancouver Junction to
Heisson. On the lower 14 miles from Rye Junction to Battle Ground, it is anticipated that
considerable freight growth will continue through the freight operator to help support the
economic development vision for Clark County. The upper 19 miles is anticipated for some
possible freight operations and tourism. In 2007, the County was awarded $1.1 million from the
WSDOT Rail Emergent Fund for rehabilitation to the lower 14 miles of track. A new trans-load
facility was created between 78th and 88th Streets. At present, this section of the line serves
freight trafﬁc; no freight trafﬁc exists north of Battle Ground.

Passenger and Recreational
Amtrak has an agreement with BNSF to operate daily passenger service on the freight carrier’s rail
lines. Amtrak trains serve Vancouver daily. During the 1990s, Washington and Oregon began to
invest transportation funds to improve local Amtrak service. In 2024, a total of 126,514
passengers boarded or disembarked at the Vancouver Amtrak station. Amtrak Cascades offers
four daily round trips operating between Seattle and Portland, with two extending to Eugene and
Vancouver, British Columbia. The Coast Starlight provides daily service between Seattle and Los
Angeles via Vancouver and Portland. The Empire Builder train provides daily service between
Chicago and Spokane; one part of the service continues to Seattle while the other part continues,
via Pasco and Bingen-White Salmon, to Vancouver, with service terminating in Portland.

The Paciﬁc Northwest Rail Corridor is one of eleven designated high-speed corridors in the nation.
Its designation pre-qualiﬁes the region for federal high speed rail funding. In late 1995, the
Washington State Department of Transportation (WSDOT) and project partners published
Options for Passenger Rail in the Paciﬁc Northwest Rail Corridor report. An Environmental Impact
Statement on corridor improvements was completed, and construction of rail corridor
improvements began in 1998. Custom-built Talgo trains are now in service on Amtrak’s Paciﬁc
Northwest Rail Corridor service. The Vancouver Amtrak station facility was upgraded as part of
the Eugene to Vancouver B.C. passenger rail service improvements. In the early 2010s, the
Vancouver Rail Project improved safety, reduced rail congestion and improved on-time
performance of Amtrak’s passenger rail service. The project added a new rail bypass track and a
grade-separated crossing over the rail lines for vehicles using west 39th Street in Vancouver.

In 2001, the Lewis and Clark Railroad was leased by the Battle Ground, Yacolt and Chelatchie
Prairie Railroad Association (BYCX), a volunteer group, for the portion of the line from Battle
Ground to Chelatchie, offering recreational excursions from the town of Yacolt to Lucia Falls with
a half-hour stop at Moulton Falls Regional Park. BYCX provides recreational service between May
and December.

Roads
Roadway facilities in Clark County consist of a network of Interstate highways, State Routes, and
county and city arterials, collectors and local access streets.



183                                                                 T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT
                                           CLARK2045
Federal Function Classification
WSDOT deﬁnes functional classiﬁcation as the grouping of highways, roads and streets by the
character of service they provide and was developed for transportation planning purposes. Basic
to this process is the recognition that individual routes do not serve travel independently in any
major way. Rather, most travel involves movement through a network of roads. Comprehensive
transportation planning uses functional classiﬁcation to determine how travel can be channelized
within the network in a logical and efﬁcient manner. The functional classiﬁcation deﬁnes the part
that any route should play in serving the ﬂow of trips through a highway network. WSDOT has the
primary responsibility for developing and updating a statewide highway functional classiﬁcation in
rural and urban areas to determine functional usage of the existing roads and streets for state
routes and non-state route arterials and collectors. Table 5.02: County-Owned Road Miles by
Federal Functional Classiﬁcation, shows the inventory for each classiﬁed roadway type and its
proportional share of the entire roadway system in Clark County, and their locations are shown in
Figure 5.05: County-Owned Roads by Federal Functional Classiﬁcation.

Table 5.02: County-Owned Road Miles by Federal Functional Classification 39
 Location             Facility Type        Total in Clark      Percent of Total
                                           County in Miles
 Urban                Principal Arterial              10.43                   0.9%
 Urban                Minor Arterial                    65.2                  5.8%
 Urban                Major & Minor                   69.29                   6.1%
                      Collectors
 Urban                Local Access                   438.36               38.8%
 Rural                Minor Arterial                  14.96                   1.3%
 Rural                Major Collector                153.11               13.5%
 Rural                Minor Collector                 104.5                   9.2%
 Rural                Local Roads                    274.56               24.3%
 Total                                             1,130.41                   100%




39
     Source: Clark County’s 2023 CRAB Certiﬁcation Report


T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT                                                                     184
                                         CLARK2045
Figure 5.05: County-Owned Roads by Federal Functional Classification 40




40
     Source: Clark County CRAB Road Log, 2023


185                                                                       T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
Clark County’s Local Network
Through the Comprehensive Planning process, current and future local arterials are further
categorized using local functional classiﬁcation system—also known as a Comprehensive Plan
Functional Classiﬁcation. Clark County's local arterial functional classiﬁcation system and the
cross-sections for these higher classiﬁed roadways in the county's jurisdiction are provided in the
adopted Clark County Arterial Atlas, in conjunction with the standard detail cross-sections
available in Title 40, the county’s development code. Information provided in the Arterial Atlas for
the county’s arterial roadways represents the county's adopted policy that guides the
development of the future roadway system and deﬁnes the role, function, and design of each
individual roadway to support and implement Comprehensive Plan. The county anticipates
updating the standard detail cross-sections and classiﬁcation system after adoption of the 2025-
2045 Comprehensive Plan, with early discussions contemplating a cooperative effort with the city
of Vancouver to ensure consistency within Vancouver’s unincorporated UGA.

The following provides a brief description of each of Clark County’s roadway Comprehensive Plan
Functional Classiﬁcation.

Urban Parkway Arterial
The Padden Parkway is the only road with this, the highest classiﬁcation within the county’s
functional system. Their purpose of a parkway arterial is to move high volumes of relatively long-
distance trafﬁc speedily across the county or region. Direct land access is prohibited or minimal
and then only to major activity centers of regional impact. Bicycle and pedestrian activity is on a
parallel separated facility.

Urban Principal Arterials
Urban principal arterials (such as NE 78th Street or NE Fourth Plain Road) permit trafﬁc ﬂow
through the urban area and between major elements of the urban area. Principal arterials connect
major trafﬁc generators to other major activity centers and carry a high proportion of the total
urban area travel on a minimum of roadway mileage. They move high volumes of trafﬁc speedily
across the county or region, but with volumes and speeds below those of the principal arterial
parkway classiﬁcation. Access is generally limited to intersections with other arterials and
collectors. Direct land access is minimal and controlled, but less restrictive as compared to
principal arterial parkway. Frequently principal arterials carry important intra-urban as well as
intercity bus routes.

Urban Minor Arterials
Urban minor arterials (such as Hazel Dell Avenue or NE 99th Street) collect and distribute trafﬁc
from principal arterials to streets of lower classiﬁcations or allow for trafﬁc to directly access
destinations. Access to land use activities is generally permitted. They are primarily designed to
accommodate through-trafﬁc but may provide direct access for more intensely developed
properties. Fixed route transit, bicycle and pedestrian activity is moderate.




T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT                                                                        186
                                       CLARK2045
Urban Collectors
Urban collectors (such as NE 88th Street) provide land access and trafﬁc circulation within and
between residential neighborhoods and commercial and industrial areas. Collectors do not handle
long through-trips and are not continuous for any great length. Fixed route transit service is low
while bicycling and pedestrian activity ranges from moderate to high.

Urban Local Streets
Most of the county road network is comprised of local streets. Urban local streets provide direct
access to abutting land and access to the higher classiﬁcation facilities. They offer the lowest level
of mobility and usually contain no bus routes. They are not intended to carry through trafﬁc but
make up a large percentage of the total street mileage. New local streets are typically provided as
part of development projects.

Rural Major Collectors
Rural major collectors (e.g. NW 31st Avenue and NE 72nd Avenue) are usually extensions of urban
principal arterials and some urban minor arterials into the rural area. Their primary purpose is to
link rural activity centers with larger towns nearby and to connect them to state arterial routes.

Mostly, they serve intra-county travel. Land access remains subordinate to trafﬁc movement. The
level of ﬁxed route transit, bicycle and pedestrian activity is low.

Rural Minor Collectors
Rural minor collectors (e.g. NE Davis Road and NE Kelly Road) are rural extensions of urban
collectors and some urban minor arterials. They connect rural areas to major collectors and state
routes.

Intersections of Regional Significance
Intersections of regional signiﬁcance are intersections at which at least three (3) approaches have
a comprehensive plan functional classiﬁcation of collector or higher. The intersections of regional
signiﬁcance are listed in Table 5.03: Intersections of Regional Signiﬁcance and shown on Figure
5.06: Intersections of Regional Signiﬁcance. These intersections are evaluated as part of the
concurrency management system. Individual movements at each signalized intersection of
regional signiﬁcance in the unincorporated county shall not exceed an average of two (2) cycle
lengths or two hundred forty (240) seconds of delay, whichever is less.

All unsignalized intersections of regional signiﬁcance in the unincorporated county shall achieve
LOS E standards or better if warrants are not met. If warrants are met, unsignalized intersections
of regional signiﬁcance shall achieve LOS D standards or better.




187                                                                    T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT
                                            CLARK2045
Table 5.03: Intersections of Regional Significance 41
           Type of Intersection                Total Number
 Signalized                                                    70
 Roundabout                                                     5
 Unsignalized and no roundabout                               154
 State-Owned                                                   47




41
     Source: Staff GIS Analysis of 2026 Arterial Atlas


T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT                                            188
                                            CLARK2045
Figure 5.06: Intersections of Regional Significance 42




42
     Source: Staff GIS Analysis, 2026


189                                                      T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
Washington State Highway System: Interstate and State Routes
In Clark County, there are two interstate highway facilities (I-5 and I-205) and ﬁve state highway
facilities (SR-14, SR-500, SR-501, SR-502, and SR-503) as shown in Figure 5.07: State-Owned
Transportation Facilities. There is also a WSDOT park-and-ride lot at the I-5/Ridgeﬁeld Junction.

Interstate highways are designed to provide for the highest degree of mobility serving large
volumes of long-distance trafﬁc; they are not designed to provide access to land uses. State Routes
serve large volumes of trafﬁc between counties and regions.

I-5
Clark County has a 20.78-mile section of I-5, the major interstate freeway serving the West Coast.
I-5 provides north-south travel and is used for interstate travel from Mexico through California,
Oregon and Washington to the Canadian border. I-5 crosses the Columbia River from Oregon to
Washington over the Interstate Bridge. I-5 has three through lanes in each direction from the
Interstate Bridge north to the Cowlitz County line. Planning partners from WSDOT, ODOT, RTC,
Metro, and the cities of Vancouver and Portland are considering a future replacement of this
bridge.

I-205
Clark County has a 10.57-mile section of I-205, an alternative route to I-5, bypassing the
Portland/Vancouver metropolitan area. I-205 crosses the Columbia River from Oregon to
Washington over the Glenn Jackson Bridge and terminates at I-5 just north of NE 134th Street.
The Glenn Jackson Bridge was opened in 1982 and has four travel lanes in each direction. North of
the bridge, I-205 has three lanes in each direction to a point just north of the interchange with SR
500 where it becomes a two-lane facility in each direction to its terminus.

SR-14
Clark County has a 21.52-mile section of SR-14, the major east-west state highway that extends
from the City of Vancouver east to the I-82 Interchange in eastern Washington. SR-14 runs along
the northern bank of the Columbia River from downtown Vancouver through Clark County to the
Skamania County line. The facility has two lanes in each direction up to milepost 12, and one lane
in each direction across the Camas Slough Bridge. An expanded segment through Camas has two
lanes in each direction.

SR-500
SR-500 is a 22.64-mile facility entirely within Clark County and, for the most part, allows for east-
west cross-county travel. It continues from I-5 east, providing access to the Orchards area, then
traverses rural Clark County until it reaches the Camas urban area. SR-500 intersects SR-14 in
Camas. The facility carries trafﬁc to and from the Clark County regional shopping mall as well as
other signiﬁcant commercial areas and residential communities.




T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT                                                                         190
                                      CLARK2045
SR-501
SR-501 is an 11-mile facility entirely within Clark County and extends from the interchange with I-
5 westward with three lanes in each direction along the Mill Plain/15th Street couplet to Columbia
Street. West of Columbia Street the facility is two lanes in each direction. This segment of SR 501
carries trafﬁc to and from the Port of Vancouver USA. The facility reduces to one lane in each
direction, and branches into two in the Vancouver Lake lowlands area with both branches
terminating in the lowlands.

The northern segment of SR-501 was dedicated to the City of Ridgeﬁeld and is no longer a state
highway.

SR-502
SR-502 is a 6.12-mile facility entirely within Clark County and provides the primary east-west
connection between the I-5 and NE 219th Street interchange to Battle Ground where it terminates
at the intersection with SR-503. The facility has two lanes in each direction.

SR-503
Clark County has a 26.58-mile section of SR-503, which provides a north-south connection from
Orchards, through Battle Ground, north into Cowlitz County. The segment of SR-503 between
Fourth Plain Boulevard to the SR-502 intersection in Battle Ground is a facility with two lanes in
each direction. North of SR-502, the SR-503 facility drops down to 1 lane in each direction north
to Cowlitz County.

Highways of Statewide Significance (HSS)
In Clark County, highway facilities deﬁned as “of Statewide Signiﬁcance” are I-5, I-205, SR-14, and
part of SR-501 to access the Port of Vancouver USA. Figure 5.07: State-Owned Transportation
Facilities shows where the HSS facilities are located.

Highways of Regional Significance (HRS)
In the 2024 Clark County Regional Transportation Plan, highway facilities deﬁned as “of Regional
Signiﬁcance” are SR-500, the portion of SR-501 not designated as a Highway of Statewide
Signiﬁcance (HSS), SR-502 and SR-503.

National Highway System (NHS)
In Clark County, the National Highway System includes the Interstate Highway System as well as
other roads important to the nation's economy, defense and mobility. It is designated to focus
federal investment on a set of high-priority routes. Initially, ISTEA required that roads be
designated as National Highway System (NHS) facilities and Congress approved the initial NHS
System with passage of the National Highway System Designation Act of 1995 (NHS Act). Under
Section 1104 of MAP-21 (2012), update and expansion of the NHS was required to additionally
include urban and rural principal arterials that were not included in the NHS before October 1,
2012. This resulted in increasing the NHS in Clark County from about 78.5 centerline road miles


191                                                                  T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
to about 148.5 centerline road miles. Maps of the expanded NHS system, a sub-set of the MTP’s
designated regional transportation system, are available on FHWA’s website.

The NHS includes the Interstate Highway System, as well as other roads important to the nation's
economy, defense, and mobility. It is designed to focus federal investment on a set of high-priority
routes. In 2012, under Section 1104 of the National Highway System Designation Act, the NHS
was expanded to include urban and rural principal arterials. A total of 148.5 road centerline miles
in Clark County are designated NHS routes, as shown in Figure 5.07: State-Owned Transportation
Facilities.

Strategic Highway Network (STRAHNET)
STRAHNET is a system of public highways designated by the Department of Defense and Federal
Highway Administration in collaboration with state Departments of Transportation to
accommodate the emergency transportation of military personnel and equipment in times of
peace and war. This system provides connections to military installations and ports. In Clark
County, I-5 and I-205 are the only STRAHNET highway facilities.




T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT                                                                       192
                                           CLARK2045
Figure 5.07: State-Owned Transportation Facilities 43




43
     Source: WSDOT


193                                                     T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
MMLOS S T AN DA R D S F O R C O U N T Y -O W N E D F A C IL I T I E S
The Growth Management Act (GMA) requires local jurisdictions to establish Multimodal Level of
Service (MMLOS) standards for all locally owned arterials, locally and regionally operated transit
routes that serve Urban Growth Areas (UGAs), state owned or operated transit routes that serve
urban areas, if applicable, and active transportation facilities. MMLOS standards represent the
minimum desirable performance level for transportation facilities and services within the region
and serve as a gauge to judge the performance of the overall transportation system. These
standards are used to identify deﬁcient facilities and services in the transportation system for
capital planning and concurrency management.

The forecast needs for county-owned capital facilities are based on the MMLOS selected and
consistent with the growth, densities and distribution of growth anticipated in the Land Use
Element. The forecast should include reasonable assumptions about the effect of any identiﬁed
system management or demand management approaches to preserve capacity or avoid the need
for new facilities.

The GMA deﬁnes concurrency as the requirement that adequate transportation infrastructure is
provided “concurrent with development” to accommodate new growth and offset the impact of
development. This concept allows coordination between the timing of development projects and
transportation improvements such as new streets and intersection improvements. Clark County
and each municipal government therein maintain concurrency programs. Such programs consist of
two key components: a Comprehensive Plan which establishes transportation MMLOS standards,
and an ordinance which deﬁnes the implementation of concurrency requirements.

More about Clark County’s concurrency requirements and management system are found below.

LOCALLY OWNED ARTERIALS
Clark County maintains a local classiﬁcation system as part of the 20-Year Plan. This classiﬁcation
system is reported in the Clark County Arterial Atlas. The Atlas also includes cross-section
drawings for arterial and local street classiﬁcation roads and circulation plans developed as special
studies. When changes are made in the Atlas, they must be part of the annual review process for
the Comprehensive Plan, as the Atlas is a supporting document of the 20-Year Plan.

The GMA states that MMLOS standards shall be established for all locally owned arterials, and
locally and regionally operated transit routes, and active transportation facilities to serve as a
gauge to judge the performance of the system. The GMA directs that these standards should be
established locally and coordinated regionally for local arterials and for highways of regional
signiﬁcance. The standards are used to identify deﬁcient facilities and services in the existing
transportation system. Highways of statewide signiﬁcance have a MMLOS standards set by the
state.




T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT                                                                        194
                                             CLARK2045
MMLOS standards can be based on performance along a segment of a roadway or at an
intersection. The Highway Capacity Manual includes different MMLOS deﬁnitions and
descriptions of operating characteristics for freeways, highways, urban streets and signalized
intersections, because driver expectations and the measures of effective performance are
different for each type of facility.

For freeways and highways, LOS is described in terms of the relationship of actual travel speeds to
free-ﬂow speeds, the freedom to maneuver within the trafﬁc stream and the effects of minor
incidents or breakdowns on the trafﬁc stream.

For reference purposes, Table 5.04: Level of Service Generalized Deﬁnitions shows the LOS
deﬁnitions for urban arterials and signalized intersections.

Clark County Council adopted LOS standards for county-owned roadway segments with an
arterial and collector Comprehensive Plan designation that are located within the unincorporated
Vancouver UGA at a volume-to-capacity (v/c) ratio that shall not exceed 0.90. These can be seen in
the Arterial Atlas.

The adopted LOS standards for all signalized intersections of regional signiﬁcance is two cycle
lengths, or 240 seconds of delay, whichever is less. All unsignalized intersections of regional
signiﬁcance shall achieve LOS E if warrants are not met, and LOS D if warrants are met.

The v/c ratio measures the actual trafﬁc volume on a roadway relative to its maximum designed
capacity, indicating congestion levels and roadway performance. It is a key metric in trafﬁc
engineering that compares the actual trafﬁc volume on a road or lane to its maximum capacity.

Table 5.04: Level of Service Generalized Definitions 44
     Level of   v/c Ratio   Average Control Delay:         Average Control Delay:      Description of User
     Service                Signalized Intersection       Unsignalized Intersection       Experience
 A                <0.3                0-10                          0-10              Free ﬂow, minimal
                                                                                      delays
 B              0.3-0.5               10-20                        10-15              Stable ﬂow, slight
                                                                                      delays
 C              0.5-0.7               20-35                        15-25              Stable ﬂow, acceptable
                                                                                      delays
 D              0.7-0.9               35-55                        25-35              Approaching unstable,
                                                                                      tolerable delays
 E               0.9-1                55-80                        35-50              Unstable, signiﬁcant
                                                                                      delays
 F                 >1                  >80                          >50               Forced ﬂow, excessive
                                                                                      delays




44
     Source: Highway Capacity Manual


195                                                                           T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT
                                           CLARK2045
LOCALLY OWNED ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES
The MMLOS standards for active transportation facilities use Level of Trafﬁc Stress (LTS) as a
method to measure the comfort and level of safety that active transportation users feel using a
facility. LTS emerged out of Washington State’s Active Transportation Plan 2020 and Beyond as
the preferred performance metric to grade active transportation facilities. Using LTS as the LOS
indicator for active transportation facilities is in line with WSDOT’s guidance, associated with
WSDOT’s grant funding opportunities and aligned with the state Active Transportation Plan.

In addition to grading facilities, LTS provides guidance to help determine the type of users active
transportation facilities are designed to serve. Figure 5.08: Active Transportation Level of Trafﬁc
Stress Measurement shows how the LTS is measured on a 1-4 scale with Level 1 facilities suitable
for all ages and abilities and Level 4 only used by highly conﬁdent people.

Figure 5.08: Active Transportation Level of Traffic Stress Measurement 45




Within the unincorporated Vancouver UGA, the county’s active transportation infrastructure
MMLOS standard is LTS 2 or better, which is comfortable for most adults.

Within the unincorporated rural area, the MMLOS standard for facilities located on the regional
active transportation network, identiﬁed in the Regional Transportation Plan (RTP), is LTS 3 or
better, which is tolerable for enthusiastic and/or conﬁdent adults.

Figure 5.09: Level of Trafﬁc Stress – Bicycle shows how the existing bicycle infrastructure
compares to the LTS standards, while Figure 5.10: Level of Trafﬁc Stress – Pedestrian shows how
the existing bicycle infrastructure compares to the LTS standards.




45
     Source: WSDOT


T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT                                                                        196
                                              CLARK2045
Figure 5.09: Level of Traffic Stress – Bicycle 46




46
     Source: Staff GIS Analysis of 2026 Arterial Atlas


197                                                       T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT
                                             CLARK2045
Figure 5.10: Level of Traffic Stress – Pedestrian 47




47
     Source: Staff GIS Analysis of 2026 Arterial Atlas


T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT                                 198
                                        CLARK2045
MMLOS S T AN DA R D S F O R L O C AL T R A N S I T R O U T ES
LOS standards for transit are also required as part of the GMA planning process. The
recommended LOS indicators for transit service are shown in Table 5.05: C-TRAN Level of Service
Indicators. These indicators were approved in the C-TRAN 2030 Long-Range Transit Plan updated
in 2016. C-TRAN’s local transit routes that serve UGAs have service frequency of LOS B or better,
which means it provides a 30-minute headway. C-TRAN’s regional transit routes that serve UGAs
have a reliability LOS B or better. All transit stops must have accessible paths that meet the LTS 2
LOS or better and stop completeness.

Table 5.05: C-TRAN LOS Indicators 48
 Service               Passengers per    Peak/Non-Peak       Bust Stop Spacing   Service Span
 Classiﬁcation         Revenue Hour      Headways                                (hours/days)
                       Target
 Commuter              27                10-15 minutes,      Park & Ride         M-F, peak only
 Express Service                         peak only           locations
 Local Urban and       22-28             15-30 minutes,      1/8 – 1/4 mile      7 days, up to 19-
 Limited Service                         peak; 30-60                             hour span of
                                         minutes non-peak                        service
 Innovative Transit    6                 Varies by area      Designated          M-F, limited hour
 Service                                                     locations           span of service
 Paratransit           3                 N/A                 N/A                 7 days, up to 19-
                                                                                 hour span of
                                                                                 service
 Vanpool               5-12              N/A                 N/A                 Based on
                                                                                 individual needs



MMLOS S T AN DA R D S F O R S T AT E -O W N E D T R AN SP O R T A T I O N
F A C IL I T I E S

ROADWAYS
The Transportation Element is required to identify facility and service needs for state-owned
transportation facilities, Multimodal Level of Service (MMLOS) standards for highways to gauge
the performance of the transportation system. This information is used to monitor the
performance of the system, evaluate improvement strategies and facilitate coordination between
the county’s six-year street program and Washington States Ofﬁce of Financial Management’s
ten-year investment program.




48
     Source: C-TRAN


199                                                                  T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
The current Levels of Service (LOS) for the Highways of Statewide Signiﬁcance (HSS) located in
unincorporated Clark County are required to meet the LOS D or better in urban areas and LOS C
or better in rural areas. The following HSS located in unincorporated Clark County are as follows.

   •   I-5 is functioning at a LOS D from the Interstate Bridge north to SR-502, and at a LOS C
       from SR-502 north to Cowlitz County.
   •   I-205 is functioning at a LOS D. The entire length of I-205 in Clark County is located in
       Vancouver’s UGA.
   •   SR-14 is functioning at a LOS D from Vancouver east through Washougal, and at a LOS C
       east of Washougal.
   •   SR-501 is functioning at a LOS D from I-5 west to the Port of Vancouver. The portion of SR-
       501 serving the Port of Vancouver is located entirely in the city of Vancouver.

The LOS standard for Highways of Regional Signiﬁcance has been identiﬁed by RTC as:

   •   LOS C or better on non-HSS rural facilities, and
   •   LOS E or better on non-HSS urban state facilities.

ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION
Clark County’s planned active transportation network identiﬁes several projects on WSDOT-
owned facilities (state highways). Although the County does not have jurisdiction over these
corridors and would not directly implement the planned active transportation facilities, County
staff can use the network when coordinating with WSDOT to advocate for their implementation.

In 2022, the Washington State Legislature added a complete streets requirement to RCW
47.04.035, ensuring that WSDOT incorporates these principles as part of state highway
improvements. Consistent with WSDOT’s Active Transportation Plan, 2020 and Beyond, the
complete streets projects aim to provide active transportation facilities that achieve LTS 2 or
better. WSDOT has a state mandate to ultimately provide LTS 2 (comfortable for most adults) or
better active transportation facilities on Highways of Regional Signiﬁcance while prioritizing the
implementation of facilities within population centers throughout the county. Therefore, the
County’s active transportation network provides connectivity with the mandated state facilities.


F O R E C A S T IN G F U T U R E T R A V E L D E M A N D & T R A N SP O R T A T I O N
NEEDS
Clark County’s Transportation Element is required to include forecasts of multimodal
transportation demand and needs for unincorporated UGAs and rural areas.

PAST TRENDS AND EXISTING DEMAND
The nature of transportation demand is inﬂuenced by numerous demographic, economic, and
sociological factors. Clark County has experienced signiﬁcant housing and employment growth in



T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT                                                                       200
                                        CLARK2045
recent years, with population and employment both increasing by approximately 23 percent
between 2010 and 2023. Employment growth has been characterized by an increase in high-tech
and retail employment, particularly in the suburban areas. The increasingly dispersed employment
tends to add to automobile travel demand and creates challenges for public transit service.

Demographic Trends
The nature of transportation demand is inﬂuenced by numerous demographic, economic, and
sociological factors. Clark County has experienced signiﬁcant housing and employment growth in
recent years, with population and employment both increasing by approximately 23 percent
between 2010 and 2023. Employment growth has been characterized by an increase in high-tech
and retail employment, particularly in the suburban areas of Clark County. The increasingly
dispersed employment tends to add to automobile travel demand and creates challenges for
public transit services. The share of residents aged 65 years and older has increased from 11.7
percent in 2010 to 17.1 percent in 2023. Housing density has trended up in Clark County, with the
share of single-family residences decreasing from 77 percent in 2000 to 72 percent in 2023.

Commuting T rends
The rise of work-from-home employment after the COVID-19 pandemic, including both fully
remote and hybrid work arrangements, has signiﬁcantly shifted commute travel patterns in Clark
County and throughout the United States. The share of work-from-home employees in Clark
County increased from 5.7 percent in 2010 to 18.7 percent in 2023, a 222 percent increase.
Several key Clark County demographic trends are summarized in Table 5.06: County Demographic
and Commuter Trends, 2010-2023.

Table 5.06: County Demographic and Commuter Trends, 2010-2023 49
 Trends                     2010            2019          2023
 Population                 427,044         488,241       521,150
 Age 65-and-Over            11.7%           16.1%         17.1%
 Employees                  178,374         232,417       258,568
 Drove Alone (SOV)          79.2%           76.6%         69.5%
 Carpool                    9.6%            9.4%          7.5%
 Transit                    2.4%            2.2%          1.0%
 Walk/Bike                  1.8%            2.1%          2.5%
 Work-from Home             5.7%            8.0%          18.7%


In 2020, the majority of employed residents in Clark County worked in the county. Of those who
worked outside of Clark County, most of them either commuted to Multnomah County, Oregon or
King County, Washington as shown in Table 5.07: County Resident’s Employment Locations.




49
     Source: American Community Survey 1-year estimates


201                                                                 T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT
                                           CLARK2045
Table 5:07: County Resident’s Employment Locations 50
 Employer County                       Number Employed         Share of Employed
 Clark County, WA                      111,725                 51.5%
 Multnomah County, OR                  47,042                  21.7%
 King County, WA                       12,692                  5.9%
 Washington County, OR                 10,349                  4.8%
 Clackamas County, OR                  6,940                   3.2%
 Cowlitz County, WA                    5,226                   2.4%
 Pierce County, WA                     3,786                   1.7%
 Thurston County, WA                   2,415                   1.1%
 Snohomish County, WA                  1,818                   0.8%
 Marion County, OR                     1,636                   0.8%
 All Other Locations                   13,184                  6.1%
 Total Workers                         216,813                 100%



Freight Trends
Freight trafﬁc is also an important component of travel demand. The 2014 EDRC study
commissioned by the Port of Portland emphasized the importance of freight transportation to the
regional economy and indicated that freight demand will continue to grow during the next 20
years.

Vehicle Miles Trav eled
Per RCW 36.70A.070(9)(d), Clark County must identify actions it will take during the planning
cycle that will result in reductions in per capita vehicle miles traveled (VMT) within the jurisdiction
but without increasing greenhouse gas emissions elsewhere in the state.

Measuring VMT per capita over time can help the county track its progress with this requirement.
Clark County currently uses two key data sources for tracking this information. These two sources
include the Highway Performance Monitoring System (HPMS) and Streetlight, and baseline
estimates can be found in Tables 5.08: Estimated Baseline Vehicle Miles Traveled and 5.09:
Estimated County-Wide Baseline Daily Vehicle Miles Traveled.

Table 5.08: Estimated Baseline Vehicle Miles Traveled 51
 Geography                                                 VMT per capita
 Unincorporated Clark County                               15.71
 Unincorporated Urban Areas                                12.7
 Unincorporated Rural Areas                                22.6


50
  Source: Regional Transportation Plan, RTC, 2024
51
  Source: Parametrix, Inc. analysis using FHWA Highway Performance Monitoring System (2023) data,
Regional Transportation Council (RTC) regional travel model trip share by geography, and US Census Bureau
population data.


T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT                                                                            202
                                          CLARK2045

Table 5.09: Estimated County-Wide Baseline Daily Vehicle Miles Traveled 52
 Geography                            Home-Based VMT per Resident            Home-Based Work VMT per
                                                                             Employee
 Clark County                         22.8                                   14.4



By using both HPMS and Streetlight data sources, the county can track estimated VMT in two
different ways. HPMS provides trafﬁc counts along roadway segments and is a dataset with many
years of past data and a stable collection methodology, which provides stability for tracking small
changes over time. Streetlight data can provide more granular data, including travel behavior for
multiple travel modes, as well as demographic and socioeconomic insights. However, this data
source is proprietary and more likely to change over time. Even small changes in methodology
could make it difﬁcult to compare changes in travel behavior over time.

VMT per capita information provides a baseline for the VMT reduction policies in Chapter 5 –
Transportation Element and Chapter 14 – Climate Element. Continued coordination with the
Regional Transportation Council (RTC) and cities on pursuing a regional VMT reduction
monitoring methodology in alignment with Washington State Department of Transportation
guidance is planned for the future.

Please see Chapter 14 – Climate Element for greenhouse gas emissions data related to the
transportation sector.

FORECASTING FUTURE DEMAND
The forecast covers at least ten years based on the adopted land use plan to inform the
development of a Transportation Element that balances transportation system safety and
convenience to accommodate all users of the transportation system to safely, reliably, and
efﬁciently provide access and mobility to people and goods. Priority must be given to inclusion of
transportation facilities and services providing the greatest multimodal safety beneﬁt to each
category of roadway users for the context and speed of the facility.

Travel demand forecasts were developed by Regional Transportation Council (RTC) staff using the
2024 Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) regional travel demand model. The travel demand model
network assumes construction of transportation improvement projects identiﬁed in the adopted
2024 RTP 6-year and 20-year project lists. Model results were analyzed for the preferred
alternative adopted by County Council on April 28, 2026, to identify street segments (links) and
intersections where transportation improvements beyond those identiﬁed in the RTP may be
necessary.



52
     Source: 2022 Streetlight data provided by WA Department of Commerce.


203                                                                           T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
By 2045, Clark County is anticipated to accommodate a total population of 718,154 and
employment of 269,000. In the regional transportation planning process, long-range housing and
employment growth forecasts are spatially allocated into Transportation Analysis Zones (TAZs),
then converted to trip generation forecasts. Clark County is represented by 665 TAZs in the
regional travel demand model managed by METRO in partnership with RTC.

The Regional Travel Forecasting Model for Clark County is used as a tool to analyze existing and
future transportation system performance. It is speciﬁcally used to forecast model uses
demographic data as a basis for travel forecasts with the basis for the 2045 travel demand forecast
model being the underlying forecast of 2045 land uses. Travel model process involves trip
generation, trip distribution, mode split and trip assignment to the regional transportation system.

Population and employment growth require a combination of expansion of public facilities and
services as well as land use planning to provide safe, accessible, and reliable access between
homes and jobs throughout the region via a variety of modes. Between 2025 and 2045, the
regional travel demand model forecasts a 52-53 percent increase in weekday daily person trips,
resulting in an average of 2.67 to 2.69 million weekday daily person trips by 2045. The regional
transportation highway system is anticipated to include a 1.3 percent increase in highway lane
miles and an approximately 26 percent increase in transit service hours by 2045.

Land use forecasts indicate signiﬁcant growth for suburban areas within Clark County. This
internal growth is anticipated to reduce the proportion of trips which cross the Columbia River
daily. In 2010, 87 percent of trips remained in Clark County with 13 percent going into Oregon. By
2045, the share of trips remaining in Clark County is anticipated to increase to approximately 93
percent.

The Growth Management Act (GMA) requires that transportation system improvements be put in
place concurrently with land development. An extensive list of capital improvements has been
included in the 2024 RTP to address the wide array of transportation needs for the Clark County
region as expressed through the comprehensive planning efforts of its jurisdictions. The projects
include roadway improvements, trafﬁc signals, road widenings, overlays, intersection
reconstruction, access ramps, bicycle lanes and sidewalks, school crossings, guard rails, culvert
replacements, and storm drainage improvements. The total for the regional transportation
infrastructure needed to accommodate growth over the next 20 years will require an investment
of approximately $4.83 billion in maintenance and preservation costs and $4.48 billion in capital
improvement costs in addition to the estimated $6 billion Interstate Bridge Replacement program.
Table 5.10: Summary of Transportation Impacts Based on Performance Measures describes the
performance measures that were used to analyze the preferred alternative.




T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT                                                                       204
                                          CLARK2045
Table 5.10: Summary of Transportation Impacts Based on Performance Measures 53
                Performance Measures                                  Preferred Alternative
 Total Person Trips                                                                           2,670,955
 Daily Bridge Crossings                                                                         371,224
 Weekday Daily Per-Capita Vehicle-Miles Traveled                                                  15.30
 PM Peak Hour Vehicle-Miles Traveled                                                            763,751
 PM Peak Hour Vehicle-Hours Traveled                                                          1,164,221
 PM Peak Hour Vehicle-Hours Delay                                                                 743.6
 PM Peak Hour Lane-Miles v/c > 0.90                                                               14.18
 Weekday Daily Transit Mode Share                                                                  1.8%
 Weekday Daily Active Transportation Share                                                         7.5%



S T A T E & L OC AL T R A N S P O R T A T I ON S Y S T E M N E E DS
The Transportation Element is required to identify needs of state-owned transportation facilities
to ensure they are consistent with the statewide multimodal transportation plan. Local system
needs should reﬂect the regional transportation system and local goals and strive to equitably
implement the multimodal network.

ESTIMATED MMLOS STANDARD IMPACTS TO STATE-OWNED
FACILITIES
The Transportation Element is required to provide estimated multimodal level of service (MMLOS)
standard impacts to Washington State Department of Transportation (WSDOT) owned
transportation facilities resulting from land use assumptions to assist in monitoring the
performance of state facilities, to plan improvements for the facilities, and to assess the impact of
land-use decisions on state-owned transportation facilities.

WSDOT-owned transportation facilities classiﬁed as Highways of Statewide Signiﬁcance (HSS)
have the following adopted MMLOS standards.

      •   In urban areas, LOS D or better.
      •   In rural areas (outside Urban Growth Areas), LOS C or better.
      •   Active transportation facilities, Level of Trafﬁc Stress 2 (LTS 2) or better.

The FEIS and regional transportation modelling for the preferred land use alternative shows the
proposed land use growth will impact the MMLOS standard for one HSS facilities located in
unincorporated Clark County.




53
     Source: FEIS for 2025-2045 Comprehensive Plan Update




205                                                                       T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
   •   The preferred alternative raises the volume-to-capacity (v/c) ratio to 0.904 for the I-5
       northbound between 179th Street and SR-502, serving Battle Ground to the east, which
       results in a LOS E rating.

The preferred land use alternative results in a lower number of person trips, vehicle miles traveled
(VMT), vehicle hours traveled (VHT), and vehicle-hours of delay than the 2016 comprehensive
plan. The preferred alternative results in approximately 3,000 fewer daily bridge crossings. This
will result in lower levels of congestion at and near the Columbia River crossings.

The preferred land use alternative results in several congested (v/c > 0.90) lane-miles of roadway.
However, the lower overall vehicle delay indicates these impacts will be relatively localized.

The reduced level of congestion and fewer bridge crossings suggests a higher degree of balance
between housing and employment due to City- and County-initiated land use actions. Providing
viable employment opportunities in closer proximity to housing creates a higher likelihood of
shorter trips and increased opportunities for non-single-occupancy vehicle trips, including transit
and active transportation trips.

The RTP includes a series of improvement projects on I-205 between the Columbia River crossing
and the Padden Parkway to improve capacity and connectivity. These include improvements to the
NE 134th Street/Salmon Creek and Padden Parkway interchanges as well as new auxiliary lanes
from SR-500 to Padden Parkway. The RTP travel demand model indicates that some congestion
will remain on NE 88th Street, with PM peak hour volumes exceeding capacity of the planned I-
205 northbound off-ramp at NE 72nd Avenue.

The RTP identiﬁes several long-range improvement projects along the SR-503 corridor between
Fourth Plain Boulevard in Vancouver and SR-502 in Battle Ground, including additional travel
lanes, access management, and a grade-separated interchange at Padden Parkway. The SR-503
corridor serves planned growth in the Battle Ground and Vancouver UGAs as well as being a major
travel route for rural commuters. The corridor will operate well assuming completion of the RTP
project list.

ESTIMATED MMLOS STANDARD IMPACTS TO LOCAL FACILITIES
Future deﬁciencies in the transportation system are identiﬁed based on the preferred land use
alternative. The assumed transportation network included the existing network plus
improvements identiﬁed in the Regional Transportation Plan (RTP). The RTP includes the
transportation improvement programs of the various jurisdictions and projects for which there is
an identiﬁed regional need, strong regional commitment and probable funding available. Clark
County’s 6-year Transportation Improvement Plan (TIP) identiﬁes needed system improvements
and is updated and adopted on an annual basis.

Appendix A details transportation issues that are forecasted to exceed the Multimodal Level of
Service (MMLOS) standards in the next 20 years. An extensive list of capital improvements has



T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT                                                                       206
                                       CLARK2045
been included in the RTP to address the wide array of transportation needs for the Clark County
region as expressed through the comprehensive planning efforts of its jurisdictions. The projects
include roadway improvements, trafﬁc signals, road widenings, overlays, intersection
reconstruction, access ramps, active transportation infrastructure, school crossings, guard rails,
culvert replacements and storm drainage improvements.

As reported in the 2024 RTP, the regional transportation infrastructure needed to accommodate
growth over the next 20 years will require an investment of over $9 billion for maintenance &
preservation, 6-year RTP list, and the 20-year RTP list (not including the I-5 Bridge Replacement
project). However, it is important to note that the RTP will be updated to reﬂect changes to the
jurisdictional comprehensive plans. A ﬁscal analysis of the County’s transportation CFP is in
Appendix A.

ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION
Systemwide active transportation mode share will be similar for all alternatives. The upzoning in
the preferred land use alternative may provide greater opportunities for active transportation
commute, shopping, and other trips. In addition, provision of higher-density population and
employment centers will reduce the cost of providing active transportation facilities to connect
major trip generators.

Congestion on major corridors could serve to encourage pedestrian and bicycle trips for shorter
non-work trips and bicycle work trips, if active transportation facilities are provided at a safe level.

FREIGHT
The movement of freight is critical to the economic health of Clark County, Southwest Washington
and the Portland metropolitan region. Signiﬁcant improvements to the freight rail system would
be necessary to reduce the existing bottlenecks and increase system capacity.

The Washington State Transportation Commission 2007 Statewide Rail Capacity and System
Needs Study indicated that rail capacity is not keeping pace with growth in demand and identiﬁed
a list of project and policy recommendations to better accommodate freight rail needs in Clark
County.

Truck freight mobility is dependent on roadway trafﬁc operations. Two indicators of freight
performance are total vehicle hours of delay and PM peak hour roadway v/c ratio. The number of
PM peak hour delays for the preferred land use alternative is 744 hours. The preferred alternative
results in a slightly higher number of lane-miles of congested roadway (14.18 miles) than existing
conditions (11.57 miles) during the weekday PM peak hour, suggesting that while total delay will
decrease, congestion will be spread across a greater portion of the transportation network. To
some extent, the impact of increased PM peak hour congestion on freight movement may be
partially mitigated by truck shipments shifting to off-peak hours to avoid periods of peak
congestion.



207                                                                     T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT
                                       CLARK2045
ROADS
Of note is the impact to NE 88th Steet eastbound due to the planned I-205 northbound off-ramp
to NE Andresen Rd/NE 72nd Ave.

TRANSIT
Increased zoning density and expansion of UGAs based on the preferred land use alternative will
improve the utility of public transit in those areas and reduce the cost of providing transit services
and facilities to connect major trip generators. C-TRAN may need to expand service hours in areas
with increased development density, but the additional service would be focused primarily within
existing UGAs.

Increased transit ridership might be gained through provision of additional park-and-ride facilities
to capture commuter work trips on I-5, I-205 and other regional facilities. Development of these
park-and-ride facilities would require signiﬁcant capital expenditure and increased operating
expenditure. Delays on I-5 and I-205 may serve to inhibit transit ridership.

The 2024 RTP six-year project list includes development of a new BRT corridor on Highway 99
from the Vancouver waterfront to the WSU-Vancouver campus as well as an extension of the
existing BRT Fourth Plain Boulevard corridor from Vancouver Mall Transit Center to the Mill Plain
Transit Center.

The expansion of high-capacity transit corridors with BRT service will encourage transit usage. On
local routes and cross-river commuter routes, C-TRAN buses will operate in mixed trafﬁc with
relatively higher delays, disincentivizing transit ridership. Increased ridership might be gained
through provision of additional park-and-ride facilities to capture commuter work trips on I-5, I-
205 and other regional facilities. Development of these park-and-ride facilities would require
signiﬁcant capital expenditure and increased operating expenditure.


A C T I O N S & R E Q U I R E M E N T S F O R B R I N G IN G T R AN S P O R T A T I O N
F A C IL I T I E S & S ER V I C E S I N T O C O M P L IA N C E

LOCAL
The Transportation Element is required to identify speciﬁc actions and requirements to bring into
compliance transportation facilities or services that are below an established Multimodal Level of
Service (MMLOS) standard. The analysis identiﬁed needed improvements to both road segments
and intersections of regional signiﬁcance. The regional transportation model analysis based on the
County’s adopted preferred land use alternative conﬁrmed:

    •   Several of the capital projects on the existing 20-year Capital Facility Plan (CFP) should
        remain on the list;
    •   Some of the existing projects are no longer warranted due to annexation or completion;



T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT                                                                          208
                                           CLARK2045
       •   Some of the existing projects need further planning analysis to determine if they are still
           warranted; and
       •   Several new projects are warranted due to the anticipated growth outcome of the
           preferred alternative.

In addition, the previous 20-year CFPs did not include active transportation, which makes up the
majority of the projected needs due to existing shortfalls. This also includes work to address ADA
needs on the county arterials and collectors.

The updated 20-year CFP is located in Appendix A: Transportation CFP.

STATE
Table 5.11: State Routes Impacted by Preferred Alternative lists the state routes located in
unincorporated Clark County that will need upgrades to maintain the minimum adopted LOS.

Table 5.11: State Routes Impacted by Preferred Alternative 54
     Roadway Segment            From                     To           Lane Miles        PM Peak Hour
                                                                                          v/c Ratio
 I-5, northbound         NE 179th Street          SR-502           3.61                0.904
 I-205, northbound       NE 88th Street           NE Andresen      0.30                1.044
 off-ramp                                         Rd/NE 72nd Ave


The I-205 northbound off-ramp at NE Padden Parkway is expected to operate with a v/c ratio of
0.865 based on the preferred alternative. The RTP identiﬁes a planned 2036-2045 improvement
project at the I-205 Padden Parkway Interchange, which will involve a more detailed evaluation of
long-term trafﬁc safety and operations needs at the I-205 northbound off-ramp.

ADDITIONAL ACTIONS & CONSIDERATIONS TO ADDRESS FUTURE
NEEDS

Aging Readiness
Clark County is anticipating rapid growth in its population of older residents. By 2040, 25 percent
of county residents will be 65 and older, up from 16.4 percent in 2020. Clark County proactively
developed the Aging Readiness Plan (ARP), which was updated in 2023. The ARP recognizes that
people are working to create communities that are good places to live, work, grow up and age in.
Affordable and appropriate housing, supportive community features and services, and
transportation options help create places where everyone can live independently and participate
in civic and social life as they age. Recommendations within this plan focus on connectivity of




54
     Source: Regional Transportation Model, RTC




209                                                                       T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT
                                       CLARK2045
missing public infrastructure, support for social services, and zoning and planning standards that
encourage age-friendly communities that older adults can thrive in.

Carbon Re ducti on / Climate Change / Green Transportation
The Washington State Transportation Carbon Reduction Strategy (TCRS) builds upon the 2021
State Energy Strategy. The TCRS describes the policy framework Washington State is using to
reduce transportation emissions and identiﬁes the types of strategic actions Washington is
investing in to work toward achieving the state statutory Greenhouse Gas emissions limits. The
TCRS serves as an implementation tool for the Federal Highway Administration’s Carbon
Reduction Program, an educational tool, and to support future planning efforts by establishing a
baseline for decarbonization actions across the state.

Washington State and METRO have adopted Comprehensive Climate Action Plans (CCAP),
developed through the Environmental Protection Agency Climate Pollution Reduction Grants.
Washington’s plan includes four transportation strategies. METRO’s plan also includes
transportation actions.

Traditionally, green transportation efforts have focused on the development of active
transportation infrastructure, such as sidewalks, bike lanes and transit stops. Increasingly, and in
step with advances in technology, policy has sought to support zero- or low- greenhouse gas
emissions.

The following are some of the additional infrastructure needs to support the reduction in
greenhouse gas emissions.

   •   Electric Vehicle (EV) infrastructure as part of private development as well as in the public
       rights-of-way.
   •   Short-term bicycle parking infrastructure at key destinations such as parks, schools, park-
       and-ride facilities, retail and government buildings.
   •   Safe pedestrian crossings at key destinations such as parks, schools, transit stops, retail
       and government buildings.
   •   Connectivity for the active transportation infrastructure, such as providing key sections of
       missing sidewalks and bike lanes that serve parks, schools, transit stops, retail and
       government buildings.

Several funding programs focus on providing these types of missing infrastructure improvements.
Partnerships with related service providers, such as C-TRAN and adjacent municipalities, are key
to enhancing county grant applications and opportunities for collaborative projects.

Climate-related severe weather events pose an immediate and long-term threat to the reliability
and capacity of the transportation network. Continued and enhanced system maintenance,
repairs and preservation will increase the resiliency of regional infrastructure.




T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT                                                                         210
                                     CLARK2045
Additional information can be found in Chapter 14 – Climate Element.

Commute Trip Reduction
A Commute Trip Reduction (CTR) law was ﬁrst passed by the state legislature in 1991 followed by
an updated law, the CRT Efﬁciency Act in 2006. The CRT Efﬁciency Act modiﬁed the scope of the
CRT program to ensure that CRT plans and employer goals are coordinated with transportation
and growth plans and focus on urban growth areas with the most congested state highways.
Under the CRT Efﬁciency Act, local jurisdictions were allowed to create Growth and
Transportation Efﬁciency Centers (GTECs) to obtain funding and ﬂexibility in implementing
programs. The Act also expanded the role of WSDOT and Regional Transportation Planning
Organizations (RTPOs) in CRT planning.

The overall statewide goals of the CTR program are to: 1) improve transportation system
efﬁciency; 2) conserve energy; and 3) improve air quality. The program requires participation by
the state’s largest employers; those with over 100 employees arriving at work between 6 AM and
9 AM year-round and located in area of Washington most affected by trafﬁc congestion. In Clark
County there are four CTR affected jurisdictions:

   1.   Vancouver;
   2.   Camas;
   3.   Washougal; and
   4.   Unincorporated Clark County (UGA).

In October 2007, the RTC Board approved CTR Plans for each of these four jurisdictions. The
implementation process requires that local jurisdictions, Regional Transportation Planning
Organizations (RTPOs), major employers, transit agencies, WSDOT and the CTR Board work
collaboratively. In 2015, local and regional CTR Plans were updated and submitted to the CTR
Board with a speciﬁc focus on setting the future Plan’s CTR goals and targets. In compliance with
the Washington State Commute Trip Reduction Law, Clark County offers several elements in our
Commute Trip Reduction (CTR) program:

   •    An on-site Employee Transportation Coordinator (ETC);
   •    Guaranteed/Emergency Ride Home;
   •    Promotion of the Clark County Commute Trip Reduction website and online ride-matching
        service; and
   •    Promotion of CTR campaign events.

The Clark County Commute Trip Reduction Website, www.ClarkCommute.org, is loaded with
information on travel options for commuting to work. It offers a commute tracker tool that
enables you to track your work commute and calculate your savings when you choose an
alternative commute to work.




211                                                                 T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT
                                       CLARK2045
Complete Streets
In 2019, Clark County adopted a complete streets program, which is designed to provide street
and road designs that incorporate safe access for all potential users, including individuals with
disabilities, bicyclists, pedestrians, transit users and motorists. Clark County deﬁnes Complete
Streets as a transportation system that supports multiple uses, is more conductive to public life
and the efﬁcient movement of people along streets designed primarily to move automobiles and
trucks and is designed to allow active and ample space for pedestrians, bicycles and transit and
safe and convenient travel along streets/roadways for all users. Users is deﬁned as including, but
not limited to, persons of all ages and abilities, including children, youth, families, older adults,
individuals with disabilities, pedestrians, bicyclists, commercial vehicles, delivery/service
personnel, motor vehicle drivers, transit users and drivers, emergency service providers, freight
and adjacent land users.

The Complete Streets standards are found in CCC 40.350.010 are consistent with the Clark
County Standard Details Manual and CCC 40.350.015 and .030.

To reduce reliance on automobiles, Clark County needs to develop adequate sidewalks and
bikeways to access activity centers and allow people to safely and easily get to their destinations.
Developing complete streets with active transportation infrastructure is a strategy that can
maximize the existing transportation system’s capacity by reducing the number of vehicles
contributing to congestion and air quality issues.

As the majority of roads constructed in the county are provided by the development community in
conjunction with development permits, it is important to note that their past reliance on road
modiﬁcations to reduce project costs has come at the expense of the community-wide active
transportation network as cross-circulation and frontage improvements are often waived. with
little consideration, if any, of the adopted Comprehensive Plan goals and policies.

Environ menta l Justice
While the County’s transportation system provides important infrastructure for moving people
and goods throughout the county, heavy trafﬁc on roadways places signiﬁcant impacts on the
community. The Washington State Department of Health Environmental Health Disparities map
(see Figure 37 in Appendix B) shows communities experiencing a disproportionate share of
environmental health burdens based on 25 indicators of environmental exposures, environmental
effects, socioeconomic factors, and sensitive populations. In Clark County, the most vulnerable
communities are often located in proximity to heavy trafﬁc roadways experiencing negative
impacts from poor air quality and other environmental hazards.

Maintenance and Preservation
Climate-related severe weather events pose an immediate and long-term threat to the reliability
and capacity of the transportation network. Continued and enhanced system maintenance,




T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT                                                                          212
                                       CLARK2045
repairs and preservation will increase the resiliency of regional infrastructure and, over time, will
reduce the ﬁnancial obligation of providing a comprehensive transportation system.

Neighborhood Tra nsportation Manag ement P rogram
In May 2025, County Council approved a Neighborhood Trafﬁc Management Program (NTMP) to
address safety concerns on local streets such as speeding, cut-through trafﬁc, and
pedestrian/bicycle hazards. This program was approved with dedicated staff and funding and was
designed as an annual program where the community submits requests, the county reviews
applications and selects the projects to move forward, the county then designs and implements,
weather permitting, all in a single calendar year. Some smaller projects may extend into the next
calendar year due to unforeseen circumstances and some larger projects due to their complexity.

This program will enable more people to move around the community without being dependent on
motor vehicles. It increases the safety of local streets, which often serve parks and schools.

Safety
The frequency, severity, location and type of crashes are assessed by WSDOT and the county.
There are several safety plans that help the county identify where the safety issues are located on
the County’s transportation system. This includes looking at motor vehicle and active
transportation safety issues.

Target Zero, the Washington State Strategic Highway Safety Plan: Target Zero (SHSP) was developed
to identify Washington’s trafﬁc safety needs and to guide investment decisions in order to achieve
signiﬁcant reductions in trafﬁc fatalities and serious injuries. Priority areas include pedestrians
and bicyclists, and the older driver age threshold has been lowered from 75 to 70 because data
shows risk factors for older drivers have a statistically signiﬁcant break point at age 70.

RTC instituted quarterly reporting of fatality and serious collisions within the RTC region. The
reports are provided to the Board of Directors. Technical committees use the latest data available
from the WSDOT Crash Data Portal. The county monitors accidents on the county-owned
transportation system.

Speed Ma nagemen t
Roadway speed plays a role in how safe the transportation system is for all users based on
WSDOT’s Level of Trafﬁc Stress (LTS) level of service standard as shown in Figure 5.08: Active
Transportation Level of Trafﬁc Stress Measurement. Reducing roadway speeds can also reduce the
cost of providing safe active transportation infrastructure. The County’s current approach for
setting speed is not standardized, and it considers the existing development conditions over the
projected densities. Therefore, transportation infrastructure may be developed that meets the
needs of today but then have to be redeveloped to address future needs based on full build-out of
the preferred alternative land use plan. This increases the County’s long-term costs.




213                                                                    T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT
                                     CLARK2045
Transporta tion De mand Ma nagement
Transportation Demand Management (TDM) is about reducing auto trips, shortening some trips
and eliminating others that are unnecessary. TDM is a strategy to maximize the existing
transportation system’s efﬁciency. Common TDM strategies are transit use, carpooling,
vanpooling, working ﬂexible hours/compressed schedule, and remote work. TDM can also include
getting users to mode shift into walking or biking.

Vehicle Miles Trav eled
Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) is the measure of all the miles traveled by motor vehicles on the
transportation system. It is a helpful measure of system use and tailpipe greenhouse gas
emissions. Resources are directed to actions that help improve performance and reduce
greenhouse gas emissions.

Per capita VMT means the number of miles traveled using cars and light trucks in a calendar year
divided by the number of residents in Washington. The calculation of this value excludes vehicle
miles driven conveying freight.

HB 1181 (2023) encourages efﬁcient multimodal transportation systems that will reduce
greenhouse gas emissions and per capita vehicle miles traveled. VMT reduction efforts are
increased through a number of funding programs such as the Commute Trip Reduction program,
Complete Streets program and Mitigation and Air Quality improvement program. The Washington
State Department of Commerce shall compile, maintain, and publish a summary of the per capital
VMT annually in the unincorporated portions of each county.


A C T I V E T R A N S P O R T A T I O N C O MP O N E N T

BICYCLE AND PEDESTRIAN MASTER PLAN
In November 2010, the Board of County Commissioners adopted the Clark County Bicycle and
Pedestrian Master Plan (Master Plan). The Clark Communities Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory
Committee (BPAC) is a 13-member group tasked by County Council with advising on matters
involving walking and bicycling. The Committee was created in 2010 after the adoption of the
Master Plan, and through its by-laws, the committee helps the County implement the Master
Plan’s vision.

Following adoption of HB 1181 in 2023, the planned bicycle and pedestrian network identiﬁed in
the Master Plan was revised to ensure consistency between the proposed standards and the
active transportation component in the Transportation Element. BPAC recommended the MMLOS
standards, which address active transportation, to be applied to all routes identiﬁed in the Master
Plan’s planned network and used along with BPAC’s recommended bicycle facility typology to
assign an updated facility type, based on the roadway’s existing context, including posted speed
and trafﬁc volumes. Additional planning assumptions were then applied to further revise the
network and develop the proposed active transportation network. Figure 5.11: Proposed Active


T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT                                                                         214
                                     CLARK2045
Transportation Network shows the updated network and proposed facilities, which was used in
the preparation of the 20-year Transportation Capital Facilities Plan, located in Appendix A. The
BPAC has also been instrumental in reviewing design plans and providing input on accessibility
and usability for bicyclists and pedestrians.




215                                                                 T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT
                                         CLARK2045
Figure 5.11: Proposed Active Transportation Network 55




55
  Source: Staff GIS Analysis of 2010 Bicycle and Pedestrian Master Plan adjusted to meet the LTS
standards.


T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT                                                                           216
                                       CLARK2045
ADA T R AN S I T I O N P L A N
The Transportation Element is required to include a transition plan for transportation as required
in Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) of 1990. As a necessary step to a program
access plan to provide accessibility under the ADA, state and local government, public entities, and
public agencies are required to perform self-evaluations of their current facilities, relative to
accessibility requirements of the ADA. The agencies are then required to develop a transition plan
to address any deﬁciencies. See Appendix L – Americans with Disabilities Act Transition Plan. The
plan is intended to achieve the following:

   •   Identify physical obstacles that limit the accessibility of facilities to individuals with
       disabilities;
   •   Describe the methods to be used to make the facilities accessible;
   •   Provide a schedule for making the access modiﬁcations; and
   •   Identify the public ofﬁcials responsible for implementation of the transition plan.

FINANCE
A ﬁnancial analysis for the Transportation Element was prepared and is part of Appendix A:
Transportation Capital Facilities Plan. The analysis was completed to demonstrate the ability of
the county to fund planned transportation improvements, including active transportation needs.

CONCURRENCY

C O N C U R R E N C Y R E Q U I R E M EN T S
The concurrency requirement of the GMA mandates that local jurisdictions adopt and enforce
ordinances that prohibit development approval if the development causes the LOS on certain
transportation facilities to decline below the standards adopted under the comprehensive plan,
unless transportation improvements or strategies to accommodate impacts of the development
are made concurrent with the development. Concurrently with development means that
improvements or strategies are in place at the time of development, or that a ﬁnancial
commitment is in place to complete the improvements or strategies within six years. Clark County
will meet these requirements through implementation of the adopted concurrency ordinance.

Concurrency policies are applied to local arterials identiﬁed in the capital facilities plan. Highways
of statewide signiﬁcance are exempt from local policies. The concurrency requirements of the
GMA closely match the State Environmental Policy Act (SEPA) short-term impact analysis
requirements as they both evaluate transportation impacts (namely the roadway, corridor and
intersection LOS) at the year of opening of the development or a speciﬁed short-term analysis
year. A SEPA transportation impact analysis would specify a study area. Concurrency requires an
evaluation of area-wide impacts and speciﬁc mitigation of those impacts concurrent with the
development opening.


217                                                                     T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT
                                     CLARK2045
CONCURRENCY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
The concurrency management system must address concurrency monitoring and concurrency
regulation for new development. The county and its cities are responsible for concurrency
monitoring, and the project applicant is responsible for demonstrating concurrency of the
proposed development. The concurrency management system will include all designated corridors
along identiﬁed arterials and their intersections on the regional system, except for facilities of
statewide signiﬁcance or intersections with facilities of statewide signiﬁcance. In addition, all
intersections of regional signiﬁcance will also be subject to concurrency testing. Implementation
of concurrency monitoring in the county and with local jurisdictions consists of the following
strategies:

   •   LOS is monitored in an established database that includes all intersections within the
       concurrency management system;
   •   The regional model and other trafﬁc simulation models are used to estimate LOS for
       roadway segments. A trafﬁc data collection program has been established for roadway
       segments; and
   •   A tracking system is in place to monitor development applications for “used capacity;” and
       reserved capacity for new development is based on approved applications.

Any changes made to CCC 40.350.020 must conform to this chapter and Appendix A:
Transportation Capital Facilities Plan.

INTERGOVERNMENTAL COORDINATION

T E C H N IC AL C O OR D I N A T IN G C O MM I T T E E
A Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) facilitated by the Clark County Community Planning
Department ensures intergovernmental coordination throughout development of the 2025-2045
Comprehensive Plan update efforts. The TAC includes participation of all cities, towns and Indian
Tribes located wholly or partially in Clark County. This group has been meeting regularly since
October 30, 2009.


C L A R K C O M M U N I T I E S B I C YC L E & P E D E S T R I A N A DV I S O R Y
COMMITTEE
The Clark Communities Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory Committee (BPAC) reviewed and
provided formal recommendations regarding the active transportation components of the
Transportation Element in their regular monthly meetings. Additional discussions also occurred
with a specially formed Comprehensive Plan Update Subcommittee, comprised of four BPAC
members. RTC, WSDOT and the city of Vancouver also attended BPAC’s monthly meetings.




T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT                                                                     218
                                     CLARK2045
T R A N S P O R T A T I ON S E R V I C E P R O VI D E R S
After RTC completed the regional transportation model run based on the County’s preferred land
use alternative, transportation service providers, including WSDOT and C-TRAN, reviewed related
segments of the Transportation Element to ensure consistency with their planning efforts.

Appendix E: Capital Facility Plans Review and Analysis was updated based on feedback provided
by all cities, towns and tribes located wholly or partially within Clark County. This included
analysis of their capital facilities plans, including those focused on transportation.

GOALS & POLICIES

T R A N S P O R T A T I ON E L E M E N T P O L IC I E S
Transportation policies that seek to provide for the mobility of people and goods must consider
increases in travel demand caused by growth in population and employment. The transportation
system must be affordable and minimize environmental impacts to maintain the quality of life. The
Transportation Element policies encourage efﬁcient multimodal transportation systems that will
reduce greenhouse gas emissions and per capita vehicle miles traveled. A safe, efﬁcient
transportation system can work to enhance economic development within a region in conjunction
with supportive land use plans.

Climate-related goals and policies within this element are notes as helping achieve greenhouse gas
reduction [GHG], resilience [RES], or both [GHG, RES]. Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) reduction
policies are tracked in Appendix I. The Transportation Element policies are based on local and
regional priorities and coordinate with both county and city comprehensive plans.

The 20-Year Planning policies listed in this element directly follow the mandates of the GMA and
the Clark County Community Framework Plan, adopted by Clark County in May 1993 pursuant to
GMA.


5.0        C O U N T Y W I D E P L A N N IN G P OL I C I ES
           5.0.1      Clark County, Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO) and the Regional
                      Transportation Planning Organization (RTPO), state, bi-state, municipalities
                      and C-TRAN shall work together to establish a truly regional transportation
                      system which:
                      • reduces reliance on single occupancy vehicle transportation through
                          development of a balanced transportation system which emphasizes
                          transit, high-capacity transit, bicycle and pedestrian improvements and
                          transportation demand management;
                      • encourages energy efﬁciency;



219                                                                T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT
                                 CLARK2045
                  •   recognizes ﬁnancial constraints; and
                  •   minimizes environmental impacts of the transportation systems
                      development, operation and maintenance.

         5.0.2    Regional and bi-state transportation facilities shall be planned for within
                  the context of countywide and bi-state air, land and water resources.

         5.0.3    The state, MPO/RTPO, county and the municipalities shall adequately
                  assess the impacts of regional transportation facilities to maximize the
                  beneﬁts to the region and local communities.

         5.0.4    The state, MPO/RTPO, county and the municipalities shall strive, through
                  transportation system management strategies, to optimize the use of and
                  maintain existing roads to minimize the construction costs and impact
                  associated with roadway facility expansion.

         5.0.5    The county, local municipalities and MPO/RTPO shall, to the greatest
                  extent possible, establish consistent roadway standards, multimodal level-
                  of-service standards and methodologies, and functional classiﬁcation
                  schemes to ensure consistency throughout the region.

         5.0.6    The county, local municipalities, C-TRAN and MPO/RTPO shall work
                  together with the business community to develop a transportation demand
                  management strategy to meet the goals of state and federal legislation
                  relating to transportation.

         5.0.7    The state, MPO/RTPO, county, local municipalities and C-TRAN shall work
                  cooperatively to consider the development of transportation corridors for
                  high-capacity transit and adjacent land uses that support such facilities.

         5.0.8    The state, county, MPO/RTPO and local municipalities shall work together
                  to establish a regional transportation system which is planned, balanced
                  and compatible with planned land use densities; these agencies and local
                  municipalities will work together to ensure coordinated transportation and
                  land use planning to achieve adequate mobility and movement of goods and
                  people.

         5.0.9    State or regional facilities that generate substantial travel demand should
                  be sited along or near major transportation and/or public transit corridors.

         5.0.10   The state, county, MPO/RTPO and local municipalities shall work together
                  to equitably implement the multimodal network.




T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT                                                                     220
                                      CLARK2045
           5.0.11      Apply an equity lens to prioritize transportation system investments
                       needed in overburdened communities.

           5.0.12      Implement transportation programs and projects that provide access to
                       opportunities while preventing or mitigating negative impacts to vulnerable
                       populations.

           5.0.13      Ensure mobility choices for people with special transportation needs,
                       including persons with disabilities, older adults, youth, and people with low
                       incomes, and people who rely on alternative transportation options, such as
                       transit and active transportation modes.

           5.0.14      Road projects and programs shall be implemented in ways that avoid or
                       minimize negative impacts for vulnerable populations. Projects and
                       programs shall seek to provide tangible, positive beneﬁts.

           5.0.15      Leverage funds to invest in bicycle and pedestrian projects that improve
                       safety, access, equity, and health.


C O U N T Y 20-Y E AR P L A N N I N G P O L I C I E S
In addition to the policies adopted by all local jurisdictions, the County has adopted transportation
goals and policies speciﬁc to areas within County jurisdiction.

GOAL:
Develop a regionally-coordinated transportation system that supports and is consistent
with the adopted land use plan.

5.1        System Development Policies

           5.1.1       The capital facilities plans within each UGA should be jointly undertaken
                       with the city and reviewed for regional consistency by the Southwest
                       Washington Regional Transportation Council.

           5.1.2       County Road Projects and transportation improvements proposed through
                       development shall be consistent with the current adopted Clark County
                       Road Standards, Complete Street Guidelines, Arterial Atlas, 2010 Clark
                       County Bicycle and Pedestrian Master Plan, Concurrency Management
                       System, RTC’s Regional Transportation Plan and the Washington
                       Transportation Plan.

           5.1.3       Performance standards for the regional arterial system and transit routes
                       shall direct growth to urban centers. [GHG]



221                                                                   T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT
                                       CLARK2045
             5.1.4      Long range land use and transportation plans shall be coordinated with
                        high-capacity transit plans. [GHG, RES]

             5.1.5      Regional airport planning shall include all affected jurisdictions to provide
                        compatibility with surrounding land uses and to support adequate ground
                        transportation to move people and goods to and from airports.

IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGIES
      •   Prepare interagency agreements that allow for intergovernmental development review.
      •   Prepare interagency agreements that provide for the transfer of transportation project
          management and funding during annexation.
      •   Coordinate with local municipalities, the Washington State Department of Transportation,
          adjacent counties and C-TRAN to ensure that minimum roadway and multimodal design
          standards are consistent and that the design standards provide for all modes and are
          compatible with adjacent land uses.
      •   Establish and promote scenic highway corridors.

GOAL:
Ensure that the transportation system, and its implementation, is inclusive and
equitable to support the needs of all users and addresses disproportionate
environmental and health impacts.

5.2          Transportation Equity and Environmental Justice Policies

             5.2.1      Promote and facilitate full and fair participation by all communities in the
                        transportation decision-making process.

             5.2.2      Implement policies under this chapter to: prioritize beneﬁts to
                        overburdened communities and individuals experiencing barriers to
                        transportation, and improve air quality, especially where it is worst in the
                        unincorporated county. [GHG, RES]

             5.2.3      Proactively assess the potential impacts that transportation projects have
                        on displacement and develop strategies to prevent or mitigate
                        displacement. Anti-displacement strategies must be designed and
                        implemented in coordination with policies under this chapter to discourage
                        displacement of vulnerable population groups due to gentriﬁcation while
                        fostering housing affordability and availability. (See Chapter 1 – Land Use
                        Element for additional policies related to this topic.) [GHG, RES]

             5.2.4      Transportation system improvements should: improve safety and
                        accessibility for people experiencing transportation barriers such as being
                        hard of hearing, visually impaired, use a wheelchair, or speak a language


T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT                                                                          222
                                  CLARK2045
                   other than English; and advance environmental justice through
                   engagement with overburdened communities in transportation system
                   projects. [GHG, RES]

         5.2.5     Implement the county’s transportation ADA Transition Plan. (See Appendix
                   L – Americans with Disabilities Act Transition Plan.) [GHG, RES]

GOAL:
Develop a multi-modal transportation system.

5.3      Multi-modal System Policies

         5.3.1     Endorse the concept of complete streets, which promotes roadways that
                   are safe and accessible for all users. [GHG, RES]

         5.3.2     Design and construct complete streets wherever feasible and practicable.
                   [GHG, RES]

         5.3.3     Roadway improvements which provide additional capacity for the
                   automobile shall also accommodate alternative travel modes.

         5.3.4     Support equitable, safe, reliable and convenient transit services throughout
                   Clark County, including increasing frequency, improving reliability, and
                   expanding routes to align with key destinations and land use planning
                   policies (including zoning and development) that encourage transit use.
                   Facilitate expansion of community transportation options in rural Clark
                   County and explore alternatives such as regional rail on new and existing
                   rail lines, prioritizing electric rail when possible. Transit service
                   improvements should include robust language access where information is
                   accurately available in multiple languages to serve the county’s
                   linguistically diverse population. [GHG]

         5.3.5     Transit-related options, including high-capacity transit, shall be prioritized
                   in order to reduce congestion and to improve and maintain air quality.
                   [GHG, RES]

         5.3.6     The regional public transportation system shall serve the needs of those
                   with transportation disadvantages in accordance with adopted service
                   standards. The county, C-TRAN and local agencies shall maintain
                   specialized transportation services and facilities to meet the requirements
                   of the Americans with Disabilities Act.




223                                                               T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT
                                 CLARK2045
         5.3.7    The county shall support new and improved passenger rail transportation
                  services between Clark County and the Portland metropolitan area and
                  along the I-5 corridor from Vancouver, BC to Eugene, Oregon. [GHG, RES]

         5.3.8    The 2010 Clark County Bicycle and Pedestrian master Plan and its policies
                  are included by reference in the Comprehensive Plan. [GHG, RES]

         5.3.9    The county supports the development of its bicycle and pedestrian network
                  identiﬁed in the 2010 Clark County Bicycle and Pedestrian Master Plan.
                  [GHG, RES]

         5.3.10   Expand the interconnected network of safe, accessible pedestrian
                  sidewalks, bicycle facilities, trails, and multiuse paths by integrating active
                  transportation into transportation engineering and planning, implementing
                  complete streets, and updating and implementing standards for sidewalk
                  and bicycle facilities to align with best practices.

                  Network expansion should be strategic and prioritize engagement with
                  overburdened communities in project priorities and design; improve air
                  quality and physical health in overburdened communities; connect key
                  destinations to help reduce vehicle miles traveled; and create pathways so
                  that active commuters and recreational users do not need to cross trafﬁc.

                  Improved connections can also serve as potential evacuation routes in
                  emergencies. Evacuation routes should be planned in collaboration with
                  Clark Regional Emergency Services Agency (CRESA) and community
                  partners and prioritize where new evacuation routes are most needed.
                  [GHG, RES]

         5.3.11   The county supports coordination among the jurisdictions and agencies in
                  the identiﬁcation and development of an interconnected, county-wide
                  network of active transportation facilities. [GHG]

         5.3.12   Support the funding and construction of active transportation facilities
                  identiﬁed in Clark County’s Bicycle and Pedestrian Master Plan. [GHG, RES]

         5.3.13   Promote bicycle and pedestrian safety and increased bicycling and walking
                  through safety and encouragement activities. [GHG, RES]

         5.3.14   Priority must be given to the inclusion of transportation facilities and
                  services that provide the greatest multimodal safety beneﬁt to each
                  category of roadway user when it is unattainable to meet all established
                  multimodal level of service standards on a roadway.




T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT                                                                     224
                                        CLARK2045
             5.3.15      Consider low stress active transportation facilities on parallel routes where
                         it is infeasible to achieve the desired level of service standard on a roadway.

             5.3.16      Develop performance metrics and annual reporting procedures to measure
                         active transportation implementation and system performance.

IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGIES
      •   Integrate the regional public transit system with other modes of transportation including
          auto, rideshare, bicycle and pedestrian travel.
      •   Develop infrastructure to interface with inter-city bus, rail and airline facilities.
      •   Coordinate with C-TRAN to integrate transit facilities such as transfer centers, buss
          pullouts, bus shelters, transit information centers and pedestrian connections into the
          design of all types of development.
      •   Provide rural collector level connections from rural centers to major multimodal
          transportation corridors and park-and-ride facilities.
      •   Support public transportation connections to the rural centers and encourage efﬁcient
          service between rural cities, towns and centers and urban centers.
      •   Ensure that alternative transportation modes such as pathways, sidewalks, bus stops and
          bike lanes are provided for in subdivisions and other land developments.
      •   Incorporate adequate checklists into the development and project review process to
          ensure that accessibility for the elderly and physically challenged is provided, through the
          construction of curb cuts and ramps, designation of parking spaces, etc.
      •   Participate in any new airport site selection process led by the Ports, Washington State
          Department of Transportation Aviation Division or other governmental entity.
      •   Implement the 2010 Clark County Bicycle and Pedestrian Master Plan to expand travel
          opportunities for transportation and recreation.
      •   Increase bicycle and pedestrian safety through education and enforcement activities.
      •   Increase the number of people walking and cycling through education and promotional
          events.
      •   Coordinate with local jurisdictions to ensure a seamless bicycle and pedestrian
          transportation system between the unincorporated Conty and neighboring cities.
      •   Establish an East Clark County Scenic Bicycle Route.

GOAL:
Optimize and preserve the investment in the transportation system.

5.4          System Optimization and Preservation Policies

             5.4.1       Development projects shall adhere to minimum driveway access spacing
                         standards along arterial and collector streets to preserve the capacity of
                         the transportation system. The county shall also work with Washington



225                                                                     T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT
                                     CLARK2045
                      State Department of Transportation to ensure that minimum access
                      spacing standards for state highways are maintained.

          5.4.2       Improve existing county roads to reduce miles traveled by vehicles (vehicle
                      miles traveled, or VMT) and emissions per mile traveled, including
                      maintenance and repair, and incorporating advanced technologies that
                      improve efﬁciency and safety, etc. Road improvement projects should
                      prioritize reducing emissions in areas of the county with the worst air
                      quality. [GHG]

          5.4.3       The efﬁciency of the county’s transportation system shall be optimized
                      through the use of Transportation System Management & Operations
                      (TSMO) strategies such as signal interconnection coordination and
                      synchronization.

          5.4.4       The county shall extend the life of existing roadways through a timely
                      maintenance and preservation program.

          5.4.5       Road maintenance and preservation projects shall consider improvements
                      to reduce the level of trafﬁc stress, enhance safety, and improve access for
                      pedestrians, bicyclists, transit riders, and persons of all abilities.

          5.4.6       The county shall support and promote Transportation Demand
                      Management (TDM) programs and strategies to reduce the peak hour
                      travel demand from single occupant motor vehicles.

          5.4.7       The local street system shall be interconnected to eliminate the need to use
                      collector or arterial streets for internal local trafﬁc.

          5.4.8       The county shall protect the public’s investments in existing and planned
                      freeway and separated grade interchanges.

          5.4.9       The county shall provide seamless arterial corridor operations between
                      agencies and use common TSMO technology for signal coordination along
                      multi-agency arterial corridors.

IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGIES
   •   Install medians where feasible on arterial roadways that have inappropriate levels of land
       access as deﬁned in the County Transportation Standards.
   •   Discourage the construction of cul-de-sacs and other forms of dead-end streets especially
       those without pedestrian and bicycle linkages. Require new development to provide for
       street/pedestrian connectivity where practicable considering environmental and other




T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT                                                                       226
                                        CLARK2045
          constraints. Existing unconnected streets should be retroﬁtted to provide bicycle and
          pedestrian linkages.
      •   Preservation program priorities will be established using the Pavement Management
          System.
      •   Truck access shall be restricted where gross weight will adversely impact the structural
          integrity of streets.
      •   Incorporate Intelligent Transportation System (ITS) where possible within urban growth
          areas when it is cost-efﬁcient and will result in achieving county transportation goals.
      •   Require private developments to access collector and local access streets, versus direct
          access to the arterials. Encourage consolidation of access in developing commercial and
          high-density residential areas through shared use driveways, interconnected parking lots
          and local access streets that intersect with arterials.
      •   Use transportation, land use and other measures to maintain or reduce vehicle miles
          traveled and peak hour trips by single occupant vehicles.
      •   Maintain the county railroad right-of-way as an industrial-commercial-tourist-recreational
          resource.
      •   Evaluate the impacts of signiﬁcant land use changes on existing or planned freeway and
          separated grade interchanges. Coordinate with the state on mitigating impacts.

GOAL:
Ensure mobility throughout the transportation system.

5.5          System Mobility Policies

             5.5.1       The county arterial system shall be planned in general conformance with
                         nationally-accepted arterial spacing standards.

             5.5.2       Congestion performance standards shall be maintained by the appropriate
                         jurisdictions on major freight mobility corridors and in the vicinity of major
                         intermodal facilities to ensure the economic vitality of the region.

             5.5.3       Transportation System Management strategies should be analyzed and
                         employed before adding a general-purpose lane to any regional roadway.

             5.5.4       County roadways and intersections shall be designed to achieve the lowest
                         possible level of trafﬁc stress to ensure the highest level of safety and
                         accessibility for all roadway users.

             5.5.5       Arterial streets shall provide facilities for automobiles, transit, bicycles, and
                         pedestrians as deﬁned in the Arterial Atlas and the county’s adopted
                         multimodal level of service standards and shall include landscaping.




227                                                                      T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT
                                        CLARK2045
             5.5.6       Improve mobility and access for the movement of goods and services on the
                         short line railroad to enhance and promote economic opportunity
                         throughout the county. [GHG]

IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGIES
      •   Complete regional corridors and address corridor bottlenecks.
      •   Allocate or reserve corridor capacity for land uses likely to produce family wage jobs.
      •   Reduce corridor speed and intersection delay standards where transit is available at 15-
          minute headways during peak hours.
      •   Provide for reduced trip rate calculations for transit supportive development.
      •   Emphasize transit and ridesharing in the design and construction of all transportation
          facilities through the implementation of transportation system management techniques
          (signal timing, signal prioritization) and transit-only and high occupancy vehicle lanes.
      •   Continually test for changes in concurrency due to major development projects.
      •   Incorporate a “no-build” analysis into the design process for all transportation projects
          that would add general purpose lanes.
      •   Ensure that freight corridors are designed, maintained, and operated to provide efﬁcient
          movement of truck and rail trafﬁc.
      •   Use intelligent transportation system technology to alert motorists, bicyclists, and
          pedestrians to the presence and anticipated length of closures due to train crossings.
      •   Evaluate the feasibility of grade separation in locations where train crossings result in
          signiﬁcant delays and safety issues for other trafﬁc and improve the safety and operational
          conditions at rail crossings of streets.
      •   Work with freight stakeholders and the Port of Vancouver to maintain and improve
          intermodal freight connections involving Port terminals, rail yards, industrial areas,
          interchange tracks and regional highways.
      •   Support efﬁcient and safe movement of goods by rail where appropriate and promote
          efﬁcient operation of freight rail lines.
      •   Identify and minimize impacts that freight movements have on adjacent residential
          neighborhoods and on resource uses.
      •   Work with local jurisdictions and railroads to coordinate land use plans and policies to
          preserve and protect rail corridors and consider community needs in relation to the rail
          system.

GOAL:
Provide a safe transportation system.

5.6          System Safety Policies

             5.6.1       Clark County supports the development and design of capital
                         improvements that achieve the vision of Washington State’s Strategic


T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT                                                                        228
                                            CLARK2045
                            Highway Safety Plan, Target Zero, which establishes a statewide policy of
                            zero fatalities and zero disabling injury collisions by 2030.

               5.6.2        Pedestrian and bicycle safety shall be given consideration in the design and
                            capital facilities planning process. [GHG, RES]

               5.6.3        Improve the safety, accessibility, and maintenance of the existing network
                            of pedestrian sidewalks, bicycle facilities, and multiuse paths by funding
                            improvements using safety and accessibility recommendations from
                            adopted countywide transportation safety and accessibility plans. [GHG,
                            RES]

               5.6.4        Interim safety improvements shall be implemented where a signiﬁcant
                            safety problem has been identiﬁed, and the funding is not yet available for
                            full improvements in conformance with adopted design standards.

               5.6.5        Intersections between rail and other transportation modes shall be grade
                            separated where possible, except at intermodal transfer points.

               5.6.6        Clark County supports strong education and enforcement that helps
                            reduce the number of fatalities and serious injuries due to distracted
                            drivers.

IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGIES
       •   A street maintenance program shall be developed by the county for non-motorized
           transportation.
       •   Develop interagency agreements on sharing services to ensure that all shoulders and/or
           designated bike lanes are maintained in a safe condition.
       •   Priority shall be given to sidewalk construction projects in transit corridors, near school
           facilities and major activity centers.

GOAL: 56
Reduce vehicle trips and miles viewed through an equity lens within the county through
changes to land use, transportation infrastructure (transit, walking, bicycling, rolling),
and commuting options/modes. [GHG]

5.7            VMT Reduction Policies

               5.7.1        Reduce or remove parking requirements where appropriate to support
                            more dense, mixed land use. To implement this policy, the county must:



56
     See additional policies related to this goal in Chapter 1 – Land Use and Chapter 2 – Housing.


229                                                                           T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT
                                   CLARK2045
                    •   Conduct a parking and/or parking requirement analysis to inform the
                        next steps;
                    •   Consider the positive and negative impacts of possible options through
                        an environmental justice and climate lens; and
                    •   Develop an approach in collaboration with the community and
                        consistent with all applicable laws. [GHG]

          5.7.2     Encourage remote work through collaboration on incentives with local
                    employers and improving broadband infrastructure where needed. Remote
                    work incentives should be paired with commute trip reduction strategies
                    like carpooling, transit passes, and walking/biking to work for those who do
                    not have the option to work from home. [GHG]

          5.7.3     Collaborate with transportation planning partner agencies and service
                    providers to expand and improve carpooling/rideshare networks. [GHG]

          5.7.4     Collaborate with C-Tran, Tri-Met, Community in Motion, city and regional
                    partners, local employers, and community-based organizations to provide
                    education, marketing, incentives, and/or vouchers for existing public transit
                    services, prioritizing overburdened communities and removing barriers to
                    access these offerings. [GHG]

          5.7.5     Provide subsidies to purchase, and/or programs to share, micromobility and
                    active transportation devices and safety equipment. Micromobility devices
                    include, but are not limited to: e-bikes, scooters, and wheelchairs. Prioritize
                    beneﬁts for overburdened communities and households experiencing
                    transportation barriers. [GHG]

          5.7.6     Collaborate with school districts to improve transportation options for
                    school children and reduce vehicle trafﬁc and idling. [GHG, RES]

          5.7.7     Collaborate with agency and community partners to improve accessible
                    and coordinated comprehensive transportation services throughout the
                    county based on “Universal Mobility-as-a-Service” principles. [GHG, RES]

GOAL:
Promote equitable adoption of electric vehicles (EVs) to achieve greenhouse gas
reduction target and improve air quality where it is worst. [GHG]

5.8       Electric Vehicle Policies

          5.8.1     The county’s approach to planning for electric vehicles (EVs) and EV
                    infrastructure shall prioritize reducing vehicle emissions and improving air
                    quality in overburdened communities and equitable charging solutions for


T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT                                                                      230
                                  CLARK2045
                   multifamily housing and households with lower incomes. Planning must
                   involve inclusion of overburdened communities. [GHG]

         5.8.2     Offer incentives for, and education on, electric vehicle (EV) purchases.
                   Education should include, but is not limited to, the range of electric
                   transportation options and household and commercial ownership
                   experiences. [GHG]

         5.8.3     Enhance availability and accessibility of electric vehicle (EV) infrastructure
                   (charging stations). The county’s approach shall address: infrastructure in
                   both urban and rural areas of the unincorporated county, multi-family
                   housing charging solutions, availability of fast chargers, and access to
                   charging options for a wide range of electric vehicles and electric
                   micromobility options, such as electric bicycles. [GHG]

         5.8.4     Collaborate with state, regional, and local agency partners on equitable
                   development and implementation of an electric vehicle charging network
                   and the electriﬁcation of non-personal vehicles such as transit (bus, train,
                   ferry) and freight (truck and rail). [GHG]

         5.8.5     As an interim strategy while electric vehicle technology and other carbon-
                   free vehicle fuel sources become more widely available and accessible,
                   encourage availability of renewable diesel at existing fuel stations in the
                   unincorporated county. [GHG]

GOAL:
Ensure resilience throughout the transportation system. [RES]

5.9      Climate Resilience Policies

         5.9.1     Plan for enhanced resilience throughout the local transportation system –
                   including infrastructure, routes, and travel modes – that can withstand and
                   recover quickly from the impacts of extreme weather events and other
                   hazards exacerbated by climate change and equitably address
                   transportation system disruptions. [RES]

GOAL:
Develop a balanced ﬁnance program, which ensures that new development pays the
costs of its impact and that adequate public ﬁnancing is pursued and available.




231                                                               T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT
                                     CLARK2045
5.10      System Funding Policies

          5.10.1      Priorities for programming and ﬁnancing transportation improvements that
                      reﬂect adopted transportation policies shall be adopted in coordination
                      with other jurisdictions and agencies.

          5.10.2      The prioritization process shall be ﬂexible to allow staff to maximize use of
                      outside funding sources.

          5.10.3      A high priority shall be given to transportation improvements supporting
                      economic development, particularly in high-ranking Focused Public
                      Investment Areas. [GHG]

          5.10.4      A portion of available transportation funds shall be dedicated to active
                      transportation facilities consistent with state law. [GHG, RES]

          5.10.5      The prioritization process shall be ﬂexible to allow staff to maximize use of
                      outside funding sources.

IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGIES
   •   Develop and implement a process that ensures efﬁcient management of transportation
       resource through cooperation in community planning and project development by federal,
       state, regional and local jurisdictions.
   •   Consider implementation of a rural trafﬁc impact fee to offset impacts to urban corridors.
   •   Cooperatively work with local municipalities and the Regional Transportation Council to
       develop an integrated Transportation Improvement Program process to maximize the
       resources for the region.
   •   Establish funding guidelines and priorities for distribution of transportation funding
       among competing needs (e.g. economic development, Focused Public Investment Areas,
       maintenance, preservation, pedestrian safety, mobility, etc.).
   •   Pursue acquiring advance right-of-way for planned transportation improvements.
   •   Leverage local funding with innovative and aggressive ﬁnance strategies including
       public/private partnerships, grant development, efﬁcient debt and fee-based funding
       sources including tolls, congestion pricing and other location options.




T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT                                                                         232
      CLARK2045




233               T RANSPORTATION E LEMENT
CHAPTER
CAPITAL FACILITIES &
UTILITIES ELEMENT
                       6
                                       CLARK2045

CHAPTER 6
Capital Facilities & Utilities Element

INTRODUCTION
Capital facilities and utilities are the basic services which the public sector provides to support
land use developments, both as they currently exist and as they are anticipated to develop over
the course of the 20-year growth management planning horizon. The Capital Facilities and
Utilities Element provide a general summary of how and when these basic services will be
provided to support future growth as envisioned by the 20-Year Plan and proposed funding.

The Growth Management Act (GMA) establishes many of the requirements for the Capital
Facilities and Utilities Element. The GMA establishes an overall goal to "ensure that those public
facilities and services necessary to support development shall be adequate to serve the
development at the time the development is available for occupancy and use without decreasing
current service levels below locally established minimum standards" (RCW 36.70A.020). The
GMA requires that the capital facilities element includes an inventory of existing publicly owned
capital facilities, including green infrastructure, a forecast for the future needs for new or
expanded facilities and a six-year ﬁnancial plan. The GMA deﬁnes public facilities to include water,
sewer, stormwater, schools, parks and recreational facilities, law enforcement and ﬁre protection.
The Capital Facilities and Utilities Element is intended to provide a general assessment of major
public services which impact land use issues, rather than a detailed analysis of every service
provided by government.

The county or city shall identify all public entities that own capital facilities and endeavor in good
faith to work with other public entities, such as special purpose districts, to gather and include
within its capital facilities element the information required by this subsection. If, after a good
faith effort, the county or city is unable to gather the information required by this subsection from
the other public entities, the failure to include such information in its capital facilities element
cannot be grounds for a ﬁnding of noncompliance or invalidity under chapter 228, Laws of 2023. A
good faith effort must, at a minimum, include consulting the public entity's capital facility or
system plans and emailing and calling the staff of the public entity.

Public facilities and services. Ensure that those public facilities and services necessary to
support development shall be adequate to serve the development at the time the
development is available for occupancy and use without decreasing current service levels
below locally established minimum standards.

The Capital Facilities and Utilities Element must be consistent with the other elements of the 20-
Year Plan, particularly the Land Use Element. Future development should be encouraged to occur



235                                                 C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
in general more compact patterns where public facilities already exist, because it can be served
more efﬁciently and inexpensively than dispersed or sprawling land use patterns. The GMA
dictates that "urban growth should be located ﬁrst in areas already characterized by urban growth
that have existing public facility and service capabilities to serve such development and second in
areas already characterized by urban growth that will be served by a combination of both existing
public facilities and any additional needed public facilities and services that are provided by public
or private sources" (RCW 36.70A.110).

Providing new capital facilities in previously undeveloped and unserved areas may in turn lead to
new development in dispersed patterns and should also be avoided. The GMA states that "…cities
are the units of local government most appropriate to provide urban governmental services. In
general, it is not appropriate that urban governmental services be extended to or expanded in
rural areas except in those limited circumstances shown to be necessary to protect basic public
health and safety and the environment and when such services are ﬁnancially supportable at rural
densities and do not permit urban development."

The GMA also emphasizes the concept of concurrency, which requires that the public facilities and
services needed be in place, or ofﬁcially planned and scheduled to be put into place, concurrently
with new development. This concept requires cities and counties to establish explicit levels of
service, or minimum threshold measures, to determine if particular service is adequately provided.
The GMA requires that at a minimum level-of-service standards be adopted for transportation.
Other services should be reviewed for adequacy, but speciﬁc threshold standards are not required
to be universally applied. This element is organized into two sections:

   •   inventory and review of existing facilities and services, along with 6-year future plans for
       water, sewer, storm drainage, schools, law enforcement, ﬁre, solid waste, libraries, general
       government buildings, electricity, telecommunications and natural gas services. The
       Inventory and Capital Facilities Plan for Schools, Transportation and Parks can be found in
       their respective elements; and,
   •   policies regarding the provision of these services. The policies provide direction in three
       areas:
           o ensuring the overall provision of facilities and services needed by public or private
               agencies;
           o providing direction for the establishment of minimum levels of service and
               concurrency obligations for new developments to assist in the provision of these
               services; and,
           o ensuring that the provision of services is fully consistent with overall growth
               management objectives, which is ultimately linked to the ability to efﬁciently
               provide the services in the ﬁrst place.

Emphasis throughout this document is placed on those services provided by Clark County
government and, in particular, on transportation, sewage treatment and storm drainage services
which are mandated by the GMA for direct concurrency requirements. Capital facilities plan for all
services provided within individual cities of the county are included within the individual


C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT                                                     236
                                      CLARK2045
comprehensive plans of Battle Ground, Camas, La Center, Ridgeﬁeld, Vancouver, Washougal and
Yacolt, although available information is included in this document for context. The 6-year capital
facility and ﬁnancing summaries are an estimate of future needs and are not ofﬁcial policy or
budget documents of the service providers except where indicated.

RCW 36.70A.070 outlines GMA climate change and resiliency requirements. Chapter 14 –
Climate Element contains most climate change and resilience policies in the Comprehensive Plan,
but other elements also include climate policies. Climate-related goals and policies within this
element are noted in the goals and policies section of this chapter. See Chapter 14 for a
comprehensive discussion of climate policies, some of which overlap with capital facilities.

SERVICES SUMMARIES & PROJECTED FUTURE
NEEDS
   •   Table 6.1 summarizes who the providers of services are for the various jurisdictions within
       Clark County. Additional information regarding city services can be found in each
       jurisdiction’s Capital Facilities Element.

   •   Table 6.2 attempts to isolate the direct capital costs attributable to Clark County over the
       next six years. In cases where services are provided by outside agencies, Table 6.2
       estimates the direct costs of providing service to county residents only. Table 6.2 also
       attempts to exclude services constructed by developers as part of the development
       process, such as road, sewer, water, or storm drainage extensions or improvements.




237                                                C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT
                                                 CLARK2045
    Table 6.1 Direct and Indirect Concurrency Services in Clark County

          A. Direct
   Service         Battle      Cama       La        Ridgeﬁeld       Vancouve    Washougal   Yacolt     County
                   Ground        s      Center                          r
Transportatio         City     City       City          City             City     City       City      County
      n
Water Supply          City     City       City          City             City     City      CPU         CPU,
   System                                                                                             Vancouver
   Sanitary           City     City       City      City Clark           City     City      N/A 57    CPU, Clark
    Sewer                                           Regional                                           Regional
 Collections                                       Wastewater                                        Wastewater
   Services                                          District                                          District,
                                                                                                      Vancouver
   Sewage          County      City       City        Clark              City     City       N/A       County
 Treatment        Discovery                         Regional                                          Discovery
  Facilities        Clean                          Wastewater                                        Clean Water
                    Water                            District,                                         Alliance,
                   Alliance                         Discovery                                         Vancouver
                                                   Clean water
                                                     Alliance




    57
         Not Applicable


    C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT                                                       238
                                               CLARK2045
          B. Indirect
  Service         Battle         Camas         La       Ridgeﬁeld     Vancouve    Washougal      Yacolt     County
                  Ground                     Center                       r
   Public         Battle       Camas S.D.      La       Ridgeﬁeld     Vancouver   Washougal,    Battle        N/A
  Schools         Ground                     Center        S.D.            ,      Camas S.D.    Ground
                   S.D.                       S. D.                    Camas,                    S.D.
                                                                      Evergreen
                                                                         S.D.
   Fire           City Fire       City       District   District 12      City        City       F.D. #13    All non-
Protection        Marshal       Camas-       14 Clark    and City                  Camas-                   municipal
                    City       Washougal     County        Fire                   Washougal                    ﬁre
                  provides     Fire Dept.    Fire and    Marshal;                 Fire Dept.                districts
                 facilities;                  Rescue      Clark
                   F.D. #3                               County
                  provides                               Fire and
                 personnel                               Rescue
    Law             City          City         City        City         City         City       Sheriff's   Sheriff's
Enforcemen                                                                                       Dept.       Dept.
      t
Solid Waste       Private         City       Private     Private       Private      Private     Private      Private
                   Hauler                    Hauler      Hauler        Hauler       Hauler      Hauler       Hauler
 Libraries        FVRLS 58        City       FVRLS       FVRLS         FVRLS        FVRLS       FVRLS,       FVRLS
                                                                                                 City
Government          City          City         City        City         City         City        City        County
 Buildings
 Electricity      CPU 59          CPU         CPU         CPU           CPU          CPU         CPU         CPU
Natural Gas        NW             NW          NW          NW            NW           NW          NA          NW
                  Natural      Natural Gas   Natural     Natural       Natural    Natural Gas               Natural
                   Gas                        Gas         Gas           Gas                                  Gas




    58
         Fort Vancouver Regional Library System
    59
         Clark Public Utilities


    239                                                      C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT
                                          CLARK2045
Table 6.2 Summary of Estimated 2026 -Year Capital Facilities Expenditures in Clark County 6061
     Service or Utility           Major Capital Projects                Estimated                Funding Sources
                                                                           Cost
 Transportation           2016-2021 Transportation                    $250,585,000      County Road Fund, Trafﬁc
                          Improvement Program                                           Impact Fees, Federal and
                                                                                        State Grants
 Water                    Well source, storage and distribution       $195,860,000      Systems charges,
                                                                                        Contributed capital
 Clark Regional           Treatment plant and interceptor             $217,600,000      Rates and charges, Revenue
 Wastewater District      system expansions                                      &      bond sale
 & Discovery Clean                                                    $333,900,000
 Water Alliance
 Stormwater               Develop regional drainage facilities,         $19,835,863     Future Drainage Utility (or
 Drainage                 complete drainage basin studies,                              similar mechanism) and
                          Stormwater treatment retroﬁt and                              systems development
                          repair                                                        charges, Existing drainage
                                                                                        fund
 Schools                  New Facilities and expansions of            $756,155,363      Impact Fees, Voter
                          existing facilities                                           Approved Bonds, State
                                                                                        Matching Funds
 Fire Protection          Land acquisition, construction, remodel       $40,140,000     Bonds, Dedicated tax
                          of stations and purchase of vehicles                          revenue
 Law Enforcement/         Expansion of detention facilities, 600-     $20,000,000 –     General Obligation Bonds,
 Corrections              700 bed maximum security facility with       364,000,000      REET, Grants
                          administrative ofﬁces, ofﬁce for
                          Property and Evidence and parking.
                          Construction of new administrative
                          bldg. Move sheriff out of the Main Jail
                          to allow for the Jail expansion Project
 Libraries                One new library in Woodland                    $9,000,000     Capital reserves, Capital
                                                                                        bonds, Private donations
 Parks and                Acquisitions, park development,               $77,045,795     County General Fund,
 Recreational             improvements and repairs                                      Impacts Fees, REET
 Facilities
 Government               Completed administrative space and          $768,894,480      Bonds ﬁnanced through
 Buildings                expanded facilities including 78th                            REET
                          Street/WSU Extension Service
                          property




60
   Schools, Fire Protection and Libraries costs pertain to the entire county, incorporated and unincorporated
areas. Other services pertain only to the unincorporated areas.
61
   Electricity and natural gas are not included in the Table as users are assessed direct fees for service


C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT                                                               240
                                        CLARK2045
DIRECT & INDIRECT CONCURRENCY SERVICES

DIRECT CONCURRENCY SERVICES
Direct concurrency will be applied on a project-by-project basis for public facilities of streets,
water and sanitary sewer. While the GMA requires direct concurrency only for transportation
facilities, this plan extends the concept of direct concurrency to cover other critical public facilities
of water and sanitary sewer. Indirect services include schools, ﬁre protection, law enforcement,
parks and open space, solid waste, libraries, electricity, gas and government facilities.

TRANSPORTATION
The capital facilities plan for transportation, including a projection of six-year needs and policies
regarding concurrency requirements for the county are included in Chapter 5, Transportation.
Transportation services include provisions for roads and associated improvements, transit and
pedestrian and bicycle systems.

WATER
Water service is an essential element of all types of land uses. Water supply development must
consider the needs of threatened and endangered species. The majority of water users in the
county are served by public water suppliers. The county does not own or operate public water
systems. In the urban areas of Clark County, public water is provided by the cities of Battle
Ground, Camas, Ridgeﬁeld, Vancouver, Washougal and Clark Public Utilities (CPU), a publicly
owned utility which serves unincorporated areas of the county and the City of La Center’s and
Town of Yacolt water systems.

Extensive water service in the central portion of the county, in portions of the unincorporated
Vancouver Urban Growth Area, is provided by CPU. In some of the more remote rural areas of the
county where water service is not readily available, CPU manages "satellite water systems" which
serve small developments and clusters of homes. The Clark County Coordinated Water System
Plan, was last updated in 2011, deﬁned service boundaries and established policies for the
provision of water service in the county. For further information on water provisions for the
individual water purveyors, refer to their respective Water System Plan.

Water Sys tem Plan s.
Beginning with any water system plan (WSP) initiated after June 30, 2024, the Department of
Health must ensure that WSPs for Group A community public water systems serving 1,000 or
more connections include a climate resilience element at the time of approval. The Department of
Health must update its Water System Planning Guidebook to assist water systems in
implementing the climate resilience element and must also provide technical assistance. Subject to
funds appropriated for this speciﬁc purpose, the University of Washington Climate Impacts Group
must assist the Department of Health with developing the technical assistance.



241                                                   C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT
                                       CLARK2045
To fulﬁll the requirements of the climate resilience element, water systems must:

   •   determine which extreme weather events pose signiﬁcant challenges to their system and
       build scenarios to identify potential impacts;
   •   assess critical assets and the actions necessary to protect the system from the
       consequences of extreme weather events on system operations; and
   •   generate reports describing the costs and beneﬁts of the system's risk reduction strategies
       and capital project needs.

Climate readiness projects, including planning to meet the above requirements, are eligible for
ﬁnancial assistance through the Water System Acquisition and Rehabilitation Program. The
Department of Health must adopt guidelines for the program. Financing provided may be in the
form of grants or loans.

Water Sys tems
Certain water systems are required to submit water systems plans (WSP) to the Department of
Health for review and approval. A WSP must develop and implement a technical, managerial, and
ﬁnancial plan appropriate to the system's size, complexity, and performance, as well as
demographic changes, community-speciﬁc resource complaints, and planning history. A WSP must
also be consistent with the GMA. The goal of a WSP is to identify current demands and future
needs and apply available resources efﬁciently to provide high quality service at a low cost while
protecting community health.

A Group A community water system is classiﬁed as a community system with 15 or more
connections that serve 25 or more people per day for 60 days or more per year. A Group A
community water system must submit a WSP if it meets any of the following conditions:

   •   serves 1,000 or more connections;
   •   is a new Group A water system;
   •   proposes to do any of the following:
       o make infrastructure changes to increase the approved number of connections;
       o expand the service area identiﬁed in a previously approved planning document or
          engineering project; or
       o expand the geographical area where direct service is already provided if a planning or
          engineering document has not been previously approved;
       o seeks to be eligible for the "document submittal exception" process; is directed to
          submit a WSP because of demonstrated operational, managerial, or ﬁnancial problems;
       o is municipally owned or located in a critical water supply area; or
       o seeks to be eligible for the Drinking Water Revolving Fund resources and does not
          have a current WSP that addresses the proposed project.

The water providers' systems consist of three basic components: source, storage and
distribution/transmission. The source for virtually all water in Clark County, public or private, is


C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT                                                      242
                                             CLARK2045
from groundwater aquifers. Although adequate water supplies for individual domestic or small
consumption commercial wells can be found in most parts of the county, aquifers capable of
yielding large amounts of water for extended periods of time, without environmental impacts, are
less common. Identifying and developing adequate water supply to meet future demand is
essential in order to ensure the continued growth and economic viability of Clark County. County
ofﬁcials in Clark, Skamania, and Cowlitz counties adopted the Salmon-Washougal & Lewis
Watershed Management Plan Water Resource Inventory Areas (WRIAs) 27-28, in July, 2006. The
plan recognizes that new groundwater supplies should be developed in the tidally inﬂuenced areas
of the Columbia River, near large sources, where the tidally inﬂuenced rivers and groundwater
discharging to the Columbia River have a negligible effect on upper basin rivers and stream ﬂows.
Individual water providers are required under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act to monitor the
water quality of their production wells, subject to the review of the State Department of Health.

Although the physical water carrying capacity is determined by the capital facilities constructed
for each water system, the source of supply of an individual purveyor is determined by the
allocation of water rights issued by the Washington State Department of Ecology. A groundwater
permit exemption allows groundwater withdrawal for a single home or group of homes, such as a
small subdivision, limited to 5,000 gallons per day and watering a lawn or garden up to ½ acre in
size. Water rights are prioritized by seniority, which includes exempt wells for the amount of water
that is beneﬁcially used. The Department of Ecology must ﬁnd that no previously established
water rights will be impaired by a proposed junior withdrawal.

Clark Public Utilities, the principal purveyor within the unincorporated area, obtains water from
66 production wells throughout the county, including satellite water systems, with a pumping
capacity of approximately 20,800 gallons per minute. To ensure readily available water supplies,
CPU also maintains 37 reservoirs comprising a total storage capacity of 20.4 million gallons. CPU
currently has 8 emergency interconnections or interties: 3 with the City of Battle Ground, 3 with
the City of Ridgeﬁeld and 2 with the City of Vancouver. Clark Public Utilities projected future
needs and funding sources are summarized in Table 6.3.

Table 6.3 Summary of Clark Public Utilities 62
             Projects             Estimated Cost            Reason for Need         Funding Source
 General Plan                          $2,878,480     Concurrency items; needed    System charges,
                                                      to maintain adequate water   rates and bonds
                                                      service
 Reservoirs & Boosters                $39,048,000     Concurrency items; needed    System charges,
                                                      to maintain adequate water   rates and bonds
                                                      service
 Main /Upgrades                       $84,942,000     Concurrency items; needed    System charges,
                                                      to maintain adequate water   rates and bonds
                                                      service



62
     Source: Clark Public Utilities Capital Facilities Plan (2025-2045)


243                                                         C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT
                                       CLARK2045
         Projects            Estimated Cost          Reason for Need           Funding Source
 Source of Supply               $66,660,000    Concurrency items; needed     System charges,
                                               to maintain adequate water    rates and bonds
                                               service
 Meters/Meter                   $11,845,600    Concurrency items; needed     System charges,
 Installation                                  to maintain adequate water    rates and bonds
                                               service
 Total                         $205,374,080



Clark Public Utilities is funded by user fees and system development charges. CPU uses bonds,
rates and system development charges to fund their capital facilities plan. Contributed capital
consists of developer driven improvements that connect to the water system. Total costs through
2045 are estimated at $205,374,080. The CPU Plan contains the necessary requirements of RCW
36.70A.070 (3), including inventories, forecasts and analyses of future plans and ﬁnancing
mechanisms. Clark County incorporates the CPU Water System Plan into the County’s Capital
Facilities Plan. Future changes made to the CPU Plan should be reviewed for consistency with
county plans on an annual basis.

Clark Public Utilities has reviewed the adopted county land use designations and the adopted
countywide population target of 718,154 and has determined that the CPU Water System Plan is
fully consistent with the land use provisions and the additional service demands which they entail,
subject to the timely issuance of approvals and permits by Clark County.

Water is also supplied to individual homes through the use of private wells. In 2024 there were
approximately 9,400 active water wells in Clark County. Use of private wells is subject to the
review and approval of Clark County Public Health. Private wells continue to be the primary water
source in the rural area but should be aggressively phased out within the urban area as public
water becomes fully available. (Readers interested in water service provisions for individual cities
within Clark County should refer to each water provider’s Water System Plans and each city’s 20-
Year Capital Facility Plans.)

The collective water provisions of the individual city and outside agency capital facilities plans are
consistent with the Land Use Element of the 20-Year Plan. Outside of urban growth areas, there is
limited public water provision and future expansions are generally discouraged by policies of the
Land Use and Capital Facilities Elements of the 20-Year Plan. Rural water provision is provided by
Clark Public Utilities, or by individual or group private wells, subject to the review of Clark County
Public Health.

Within unincorporated Urban Growth Areas other than Vancouver UGA, the 20-Year Plan Map
has designated very little land for short term urban density development which would require
public water service. These UGA lands are afﬁxed with an "Urban Holding" overlay designation,
which explicitly precludes urbanization until a site-speciﬁc demonstration of service ability is
made. Provision for lands within corporate limits is addressed in the city comprehensive plans.



C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT                                                     244
                                     CLARK2045
Within the Vancouver UGA there is a substantial amount of land under county jurisdiction which
is designated for near term urban development without the Urban Holding Overlay. Clark Public
Utilities is the water purveyor for a large portion of the Vancouver UGA north of the Burlington
Northern Railroad tracks. See the water service area map in the 2011 Clark County Coordinated
Water System Plan Update for speciﬁc service areas. The City of Vancouver formally adopted a
Capital Facilities Plan in 2014 specifying how their water service area would be served. The City
Department of Public Works reviewed the proposed county land use designations and the 2035
countywide population projection of 577,431 and concluded that projected population in the
Vancouver service area can be served by the central facilities listed within the city’s adopted
Capital Facilities Plan. Additional line extensions needed to serve the higher population would be
ﬁnanced by development proposals.

SANITARY SEWER/TREATMENT PLANT
Clark County no longer provides wastewater collection, having transferred operation of its
collection system to the Clark Regional Wastewater District (formally Hazel Dell Sewer District)
in 1993 and treatment system to the Discovery Clean Water Alliance (Alliance) in 2015.

Clark Regional Wastewater District (District) operates a public wastewater system extending
more than 50 square miles and serving nearly 100,000 residents in Clark County, Washington. The
district serves the City of Ridgeﬁeld, portions of the cities of Battle Ground and Vancouver and
large portions of unincorporated Clark County. The district’s customer base has nearly doubled in
20 years, spurred by high rates of growth in Clark County. Over the next 20 years, the customer
base is projected to continue to rise rapidly in the Ridgeﬁeld area and more moderately in the
other urban areas served by the district. Consistent with local comprehensive planning efforts and
the state statute regulating discharge of pollutants to waters of the State (Chapter 90.48 RCW,
the district has produced this Comprehensive General Sewer Plan (Plan) to present its plans for
improving, operating, and extending its wastewater system through 2036. The Plan is an integral
part of the district’s ongoing focus on reliability, and its commitment to environmental
stewardship and ﬁscal responsibility. It evaluates the current capacity of the collection and
conveyance system, predicts future wastewater ﬂows based on projected population changes,
evaluates future capacity and schematically illustrates sewer extensions into areas where new
growth is expected. The Plan incorporates management and policy recommendations, a capital
improvement program (CIP) and a ﬁnancial analysis. The Plan satisﬁes the requirements for a
General Comprehensive Plan (GCP) and a General Sewer Plan (GSP). The GCP is prepared in
accordance with the requirements of Section 57.16.010 RCW. The GSP is prepared in
accordance with the requirements of Section 90.48.110 RCW and Sections 173-240-010, 173-
240-020, and 173-240-050 Washington Administrative Code (WAC).

Within the county’s unincorporated urban area, sanitary sewer service is provided by the City of
Vancouver and the Clark Regional Wastewater District. The Vancouver service area encompasses
over 55 square miles, extending well beyond city limits to Vancouver Lake to the west, 202nd
Avenue to the east and NE 99th Street to the north. The Vancouver system includes two
treatment plants and an industrial pretreatment lagoon.


245                                                C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT
                                     CLARK2045
.Effective January 1, 2014 the City of Ridgeﬁeld transferred ownership of their collection system
to the Clark Regional Wastewater District, the (District). The District completed construction of
phase one of the Discovery Corridor Wastewater Transmission System (DCWTS) in 2016. DCWTS
provides a way for wastewater generated in Ridgeﬁeld to be conveyed south into the District’s
central service area for treatment at the Salmon Creek Wastewater Treatment Plant. The
District's service area within the unincorporated Vancouver Urban growth area is estimated to be
developed at 60 percent of full coverage based on 2016 population.

Projected needs and funding sources for the Clark Regional Wastewater District are included in
the District’s Comprehensive General Sewer Plan (GSP), December 2017. These plans have the
necessary contents required by RCW 36.70A.070 (3), including inventories, forecasts and analyses
of future plans and ﬁnancing mechanisms. The District has reviewed the proposed county land use
designations and determined that the plans are fully consistent with these provisions and the
additional service demands which they entail. Annually the District update and adopts a six-year
capital improvement program.




C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT                                                246
                                     CLARK2045
Wastewater collected by the City of Battle Ground and the Clark Regional Wastewater District is
delivered to the Discovery Clean Water Alliance (Alliance). The Alliance provides regional
transmission and treatment of wastewater in central Clark County. The Alliance assumed full
operation on January 1, 2015 (Alliance Operations Date). As currently established, the Alliance
serves four Member agencies – the City of Battle Ground, Clark County, Clark Regional
Wastewater District and the City of Ridgeﬁeld. The Members jointly own and jointly manage the
regional wastewater assets through an interlocal framework established under the State of
Washington Joint Municipal Utility Services Act (JMUSA) (RCW 39.106). As of the Alliance
Operations Date, the Alliance owns, operates and manages nine Regional Assets with an
estimated book value (historical cost less depreciation) of approximately $126 million. These
assets include:
            • Salmon Creek Interceptor
            • Klineline Interceptor
            • 36th Avenue Pump Station
            • 117th Street Pump Station
            • 36th Avenue Pump Station Force Main
            • 117th Street Pump Station Force Main
            • Salmon Creek Treatment Plant and Outfall
            • Ridgeﬁeld Treatment Plant and Outfall
            • Battle Ground Force Main

The JMUSA statute was passed by the Washington State Legislature and signed by the Governor
in 2011. The Discovery Clean Water Alliance was the second agency in the state to form under
this statute. While the Alliance is a regional wastewater transmission and treatment utility today,
the statue allows for any form of municipal water-related utility service to be provided and
supports any combination of municipal partner agencies as Members. This structure ensures the
ﬂexibility to accommodate changing needs of the regional service area over time. In 2013 the
Members were recipients of the Governor’s Smart Communities Award for smart growth planning
for their cooperative efforts to create the Alliance.

The Alliance system is adequate to meet existing demands and Table 6.5 lists the projected 6-year
capital improvements required for the regional treatment plants and transmission system. This
information and related details are included in expanded form in the Discovery Clean Water
Alliance Capital Plan (Capital Plan), December 2014. The Capital Plan has the necessary contents
required by RCW 36.70A.070 (3), including inventories, forecasts and analyses of future plans and
ﬁnancing mechanisms. The Alliance has reviewed the proposed county land use designations and
determined that the Capital Plan is fully consistent with these provisions and the additional
service demands that they entail. Future changes made to the Capital Plan should be reviewed for
consistency with county plans on an annual basis. Further sewage treatment plant expansions are
planned chieﬂy to address the needs of new development. The program shown in Table 6.5
assumes that major sewer facility expansions will be ﬁnanced from revenue received from the
county’s wholesale wastewater treatment customers. The wholesale customers bear the full cost
and responsibility for the expansion costs.


247                                                C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT
                                     CLARK2045
A 6-year revenue requirement forecast is presented in Table 6.5. Annual revenue requirements
based on the forecast of revenues, expenditures, fund balances and ﬁscal policies are summarized
in Table 6.5. Planning period rate revenues and other revenues are forecast to incrementally grow
over the following 5 years from 19.4 million and $1.6 million in 2017 to $23.5 million and $1.8
million in 2022, respectively. SDC revenue is projected to be $7.6 million. As shown in Table 1-5,
the combined fund balance will decrease over the planning period, beginning 2017 at $35.2 million
and ending 2022 with $32.0 million. The District reserves are adequate to meet all ﬁnancial needs
and to permit the drawdown of fund balances while complying with all District ﬁnancial policies.




C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT                                                 248
                                       CLARK2045
Table 6.4 Discovery Clean Water Alliance 2027-2032 6-Year Capital Plan Summary
 Capital Facility Project Type        Number of             Cost                   Funding
                                       Projects
 Capital Projects                          9            $131,200,000             $131,200,000
 Rehabilitation & Replacement             22             $43,100,000              $43,100,000
 Projects
 TOTAL                                    31            $174,300,000       Regional Service Charges,
                                                                              Grants, and Loans



Unincorporated rural Clark County is served by individual private septic systems. Since 1974 the
installation of on-site septic has been regulated by the Clark County Department of Health. The
Health Department estimates that there are approximately 35,000 septic systems are in use
throughout the county. Septic systems installed prior to 1974 were subject to virtually no
regulation. Recent technological advances and the establishment of mandatory maintenance
requirements on some subdivisions have limited septic system failure rates. However, the number
of septic systems subject to mandatory maintenance requirements remains quite small, even of
those installed after 1974. Septic systems will remain the predominant form of sewage disposal
within the rural area but will be replaced with public sewer as it becomes available in the urban
area.

The collective sewer provisions of Clark County and the individual city and outside agency capital
facilities plans are consistent with the Land Use Element of the 20-Year Plan. Outside of urban
growth areas, there is limited public sewer provision, and future expansions are generally
discouraged by policies of the Land Use and Capital Facilities Elements of the 20-Year Plan. Rural
sewer provision is provided by individual private septic systems, subject to the review of Clark
County Public Health.

Given the anticipated growth in the County, several studies have been completed to examine the
potential economic and environmental beneﬁts of regionalization of various aspects of sewer
service. A Sewer Coalition Planning Study was completed in November 2009 with the
participation of all sewer utilities in the County. This Study resulted in the development of a
Regional General Sewer Plan (RGSP) outlining a long-term vision for sewer service in the County
and the recommendation that four agencies (Battle Ground, Ridgeﬁeld, Clark County and Clark
Regional Wastewater District) form a partnership to provide treatment and major conveyance for
sewage for each agencies service area. The collective sewer provisions of Clark County and the
individual city and outside agency capital facilities plans are consistent with the Land Use Element
of the 20-Year Plan. Outside of urban growth areas, there is limited public sewer provision and
future expansions are generally discouraged by policies of the Land Use and Capital Facilities
Elements of the 20-Year Plan.

Within unincorporated Urban Growth Areas other than the Vancouver UGA the Comprehensive
Plan Map has designated relatively little land for short term urban density development which



249                                                  C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT
                                     CLARK2045
would require public sewer service. These UGA lands are afﬁxed with an "Urban Holding" overlay
designation, which explicitly precludes urbanization until a site-speciﬁc demonstration of
serviceability is made.

Provisions for lands within corporate limits are addressed in the city’s comprehensive plans.
Within the Vancouver UGA there is a substantial amount of land under county jurisdiction which
is designated for near term urban development without the Urban Holding overlay. The District
serves the City of Vancouver Urban Growth Area consistent with the County’s Comprehensive
Plan.


I N D I R EC T C O N C U R R E N C Y S E R VI C E S
Indirect concurrency services include storm drainage, public schools, parks, ﬁre protection, law
enforcement, solid waste disposal, county buildings, electricity, natural gas and
telecommunications. These services are necessary to support additional growth to varying
degrees, but they have not been identiﬁed by the GMA as critical facilities to be applied using
direct concurrency standards as is the case with roads, sewer and water facilities.

STORMWATER DRAINAGE
Unmanaged stormwater runoff can result in ﬂooding, elimination of ﬁshery and wildlife habitat,
pollution of the county's drinking water supply and negative impacts to the aesthetics of the
county's streams, lakes and wetlands. The regulation and management of storm drainage in Clark
County falls under the responsibility of the local municipalities and Clark County. City
governments regulate and maintain drainage systems within their city limits.

Clark County regulates and manages surface water runoff in the unincorporated areas outside of
city limits. The Washington State Department of Transportation (WSDOT) is responsible for the
management of runoff from State highways and associated properties. The 100-year ﬂoodplains
are designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and are managed by the
county or individual cities. The U.S. government and the State of Washington, through legislation
or administrative actions, greatly inﬂuence how the county and its cities are required to regulate
and manage storm drainage.

In 1999 Clark County received a Municipal Storm Sewer System permit through the National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES). This permit is issued by the State of Washington
Department of Ecology under the authority of the federal Clean Water Act. The stormwater
permit requires Clark County to take certain actions to reduce pollutant from discharges from its
storm sewer system. These actions include requiring construction of stormwater treatment and
ﬂow control facilities for development projects and a program to plan and build capital
improvements to reduce pollutants from the county storm drainage system.




C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT                                                   250
                                      CLARK2045
Clark County’s Clean Water Division develops new stormwater facilities and implements updates
to older facilities that collect and treat polluted storm runoff. These projects control stormwater
ﬂows and help:

   •   Reduce pollution in our water runoff.
   •   Improve water quality treatment.
   •   Reduce stream erosion and protect river habitat.
   •   Keep our waterways safe for recreation and other uses.

Projects vary in scope and size but may include installing rain gardens or wetlands for improved
water quality treatment, expanding water storage, modifying inlets and outlets, and repairing or
replacing aging facilities. Projects are funded by clean water fees and state and federal grants.

It is anticipated that the Stormwater mitigation for private development will continue to be
ﬁnanced by the development community, though opportunities will be sought to achieve private-
public partnerships where feasible. Public stormwater facility construction will mitigate its
stormwater impacts as part of the project funding, using sources such as the road fund. The
remaining need is for an ongoing retroﬁt program under the requirements of the county NPDES
stormwater permit. Some of the County’s stormwater projects fall into the category of “green
infrastructure”. These projects are listed in the County’s project inventory for documentation in
the County’s Stormwater Capital Facilities Plan. (Readers interested in stormwater provisions for
individual cities within Clark County should refer to the respective cities’ comprehensive plan.)

PUBLIC SCHOOLS
In addition to their primary educational function, public schools serve as a community focal point
and provide facilities used for a variety of community, civic and recreational needs. Schools are not
required as a mandatory concurrency item under the GMA but are required by existing state law
under RCW 58.17.110 to be adequately provided for before land divisions may be approved.
Chapter 10, School Element provides a complete overview of the school districts serving Clark
County. Additional information representing the priority capital projects for school districts is
presented in each school district’s Capital Facility Plans.

PARKS
Chapter 7, Parks, Recreation and Open Space provides a complete overview of the Clark County
system, based on the 2022 Clark County Parks, Recreation and Open Space Plan. Where
appropriate some of the park project may be considered “green infrastructure” and are identiﬁed
and documented in the Parks, Recreation and Open Space Plan.

FIRE PROTECTION/SUPPRESSION
Fire protection in Clark County is provided by a combination of sources. Urban area service has
been historically provided by city ﬁre departments, while various ﬁre protection districts serve the
unincorporated areas. The Washington Department of Natural Resources (DNR) provides
protection for all state trust lands located in the forested portions in the eastern and northern


251                                                C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT
                                        CLARK2045
ends of the county. The USDA Forest Service provides protection for the small portion of the
Gifford Pinchot National Forest located in the far eastern area of the county. Fire protection
service for Battle Ground is provided by District 3 and was annexed into the City of Battle Ground
in 2021. District 2 is now defunct, and its former service area is incorporated into Clark-Cowlitz
Fire Rescue which serves La Center, Ridgeﬁeld, Woodland, the Cowlitz Indian Reservation, and
rural NW Clark County.

In addition to providing ﬁre protection, most districts provide emergency medical services (EMS)
and basic life support and/or advanced life support. The City of Vancouver operates the only
hazardous materials response team in the county and is the primary service provider for technical
rescue services in conjunction with Fire District 6. EMS calls have constituted an increasing
portion of the ﬁre agency's activities and responsibilities, at increasing cost. Emergency response
ambulance transport is provided by three providers within Clark County: 1) North Country EMS
providing service to Fire Districts 10, 13 and part of District 3; 2) Camas/Washougal providing
service to the cities of Camas and Washougal and East County Fire and Rescue; and 3) the City of
Vancouver providing service to the City of Vancouver, Fire District 5 and EMS District 2. EMS
District 2 makes up the bulk of the remaining portions of the unincorporated County and small
cities.

Clark County has grown rapidly since 1980, much of it in previously non-urbanized areas of the
county. Virtually every ﬁre district has experienced some urban type growth. Annexation by cities
can provide a higher level-of-service to these areas to meet the increased urban growth, while
reducing the service impacts to districts. Fire districts within or adjacent to urban areas desire to
provide an Urban Service delivery to reﬂect the need to protect a growing community. The
impacts of service levels due to annexation by cities are statutorily mitigated by RCW 35.13 and
RCW 35.103.050.

There has been a trend towards increased coordination and cooperation among the various ﬁre
and emergency service providers in recent years and greater integration will be needed in the
future. To date, this has involved the joint use of stations or other facilities and even merging Fire
Districts in certain cases. There will likely be increased consistency of standards and levels of
services provided among the various districts, with the Clark County Fire Marshal likely playing a
larger coordinative and oversight role. Fire protection and suppression services are in the process
of becoming more proactive and preventative, rather than strictly reactive as has often been the
case in the past. There will likely be increased incentives or regulatory measures to decrease the
likelihood of ﬁres occurring, such as ﬁre restrictive materials in all areas, or land use restrictions in
ﬁre-prone areas, as well as on-site sprinklers to suppress those ﬁres that do occur. Estimated
capital facility six-year needs are listed in Table 6.6.




C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT                                                        252
                                           CLARK2045
Table 6.5 Fire Protection Estimated Six-year Capital Expenditures by Fire District, 2016-2021 636465
      Fire District                     Projects                   Estimated Cost       Projected ﬁnancing Funding
                                                                                                  sources
 Clark Cowlitz Fire &     New Station and Land; Finish                 $40,140,000      Reserve Fund and general
 Rescue                   Station; Ladder Truck; Class A                                obligation bonds
                          Pumper Trucks 4; Squad Vehicles 5;
                          Chief Ofﬁcer Vehicles 2
 East County Fire &       Upgrades to Fire Station/facilities;           $4,672,134     Bonds, general fund,
 Rescue                   New engines, apparatuses, and                                 emergency rescue fund
                          equipment;
 FD #3 (Battle            Replacing Station 35 and                     $32,971,000      Existing reserve fund, bond
 Ground area)             purchasing ﬁre apparatus and                                  sale, development and impact
                          equipment                                                     fees
 Vancouver FD 66          New Fire Station 3 & 6; Seismic             $120,515,000      General fund, property tax
 (Vancouver area)         Retroﬁt for Stations 4, 5, & 8; Fire                          revenue
                          Station 5 Warehouse
 FD #6 (Hazel Dell        New Station and buildings; New               $45,916,038      Property tax revenue
 area)                    engines, apparatuses, and
                          qualifying capital equipment
 FD #10 (Amboy            No identiﬁed projects                      No information     No information provided
 area)                                                                     provided
 FD #13 (Yacolt area)     No information provided                    No information     No information provided
                                                                           provided
 TOTAL                                                                $244,214,172



LAW ENFORCEMENT/CORRECTIONS
The Clark County Sheriff’s Ofﬁce provides law enforcement services throughout the
unincorporated area and in the Town of Yacolt. The cities of Camas, Washougal, Battle Ground, La
Center, Ridgeﬁeld and Vancouver are served by municipal police departments. There is extensive
cooperation between the cities and the county law enforcement forces involving shared facilities
and provisions for mutual back-up in emergency situations. The Washington State Patrol has
police jurisdiction on all state routes within the county and is largely responsible for state
facilities. The state also provides back-up for the Clark County Sheriff’s Department and local
jurisdictions’ forces. The primary law enforcement facilities used by the county are the Clark
County Law Enforcement Center (main jail), the Jail Work Center, the Juvenile Detention Center
and the Central Precincts.




63
   Clark County Fire Districts 11 & 12 merged into Clark Cowlitz Fire and Rescue.
64
   The City of Woodland contracts with Clark Cowlitz Fire and Rescue to provide service.
65
   The City of Battleground contracts with Clark County Fire District #3.
66
   FD #5 combined with City of Vancouver


253                                                       C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
Regional or shared Law enforcement and correction facilities including the main jail, the Jail Work
Center, the Juvenile Detention Center, the Clark-Skamania Drug Task Force (Task Force) leased
facility, the new 911 Emergency Center (CRESA and a leased facility for the Child Abuse
Intervention Center (CAIC). These last three (3) agencies (Task Force, CRESA and CAIC) are inter-
jurisdictional. In addition to these regional facilities, Vancouver, Camas, Washougal and Battle
Ground each has their own jail/holding facility. Larch Corrections Center, the only state detention
facility in Clark County, is an all-male minimum security facility that houses 164 inmates. Table 6.7
provides the Sheriff’s summary capital facilities plan.




C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT                                                     254
                                           CLARK2045
Table 6.6 Summary of Sheriff’s Capital Facilities Plan (2026 planning cost)
      Capital Facility           Description Projects                   Cost             Funding Sources
                                                                  (millions, 2006
                                                                      dollars)
 Headquarters                1000,000 to 11,000 SF                     $75,000,000 –   Bonds
                             building space for admin,                  105,000,000
                             patrol, investigations,
                             evidence, standard training,
                             and parking
 Jail Expansion (New)        600 to 700 maximum                        $364,000,000    Construction: Bonds
                             security facility with
                             administrative ofﬁces, ofﬁce
                             for Property and Evidence
                             and parking
 Sheriff Replacement         Move sheriff out of the Main               $20,000,000    Bonds, levy or sales
 /New Building               Jail to allow for the Jail                                tax
                             expansion Project

 EVOC/PIT track              Training space for precision              $18,000,000 –   Bonds
                             driving, braking, skid control,             35,000,000
                             pursuit-related
                             maneuvering, and high-risk
                             vehicle operations
 Shooting Range              35,000 to 45,000 SF 10 land               $33,000,000 –   Construction: Bonds
                             indoor range plus range                     48,000,000
                             support to include a 360-
                             shoot house. This would be a
                             shared training facility with
                             the C.C. Jail. Replacement,
                             Classrooms, 40 lanes,
                             tactical training facilities
 Total Long-Term             Long Term Facility Estimate               $180,000,000
 Total Low Estimate                                                    $690,000,000

 Total High Estimate                                                   $752,000,000



The major cost of the Jail Expansion will likely necessitate Bond ﬁnancing, combined with a
dedicated levy or sales tax increase to fund debt service and the additional Jail operating costs
that would result. A portion of the additional operating costs may be recovered from other
jurisdictions for housing misdemeanants.

Demand for law enforcement services is directly related to the population (number of households)
and the amount of developed commercial/industrial acreage for the area. Most of the growth in
the county has occurred in the unincorporated, largely rural sections of the county. As a result, the
Clark County Sheriff’s Ofﬁce has experienced the greatest increase in demand/need for services.


255                                                       C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT
                                       CLARK2045
The traditional measure of levels of law enforcement services is the ratio of ofﬁcers to population
served, which is a personnel and non-capital issue. Using the number of sworn ofﬁcers as a
measure of stafﬁng is also becoming outdated as workload and performance measures have
become more sophisticated. The level of law enforcement service for Clark County is increasingly
evaluated based upon a demand or workload indicator, like calls for service and performance
outcomes like crime clearance rates. Most calls for police assistance are associated with places of
residences but calls from workplaces and commercial areas are becoming more signiﬁcant.

SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
The purpose of solid waste management activities in Clark County is to protect and preserve
human health, environmental quality and natural resources through efﬁcient, cost-effective
programs and services. Solid waste collection and recycling operations in the county and its
associated cities are conducted almost entirely by private contractors. Within the unincorporated
portions of the county these services are conducted by one private company under the regulatory
authority of the Washington Utilities and Transportation Commission (WUTC). Clark County has
no authority to directly contract for solid waste collection services, other than for the collection of
residential recyclable materials. Cities and towns have the option to contract directly for
collection services, provide the collection themselves or defer regulation to the WUTC. Currently,
Battle Ground, La Center and Yacolt defer collection company regulation to the WUTC.
Vancouver, Ridgeﬁeld and Washougal contract their services to private haulers, while the City of
Camas provides its own garbage collection.

Waste collected by the WUTC certiﬁed haulers, city contracted haulers and self haulers is initially
disposed of at the Central Transfer and Recycling Center (CTR), the West Van Materials Recovery
Center (West Van), or the Washougal Transfer Station (WTS) in Clark County. Some processing of
mixed loads is conducted at the transfer stations to recover recyclable materials. Non-recyclable
waste is transported for ﬁnal disposal to Finely Buttes and Wasco County Landﬁlls in Eastern
Oregon. The transfer facilities, landﬁll and transportation of materials are operated by the
Columbia Resource Company (CRC). The CRC system replaced the in-county Leichner Landﬁll
which closed on December 31, 1991. Currently, curbside collection of a variety of recyclable
materials is provided to residents at varying service levels within all of the cities and the urban and
non-urban areas of Clark County. Recyclable materials collected through county/city curbside
collection programs are delivered and processed at West Van.

Residential curbside collection of yard debris is also provided at varying service levels in the cities
of Vancouver, Battle Ground, Camas, Washougal and the urban areas of unincorporated Clark
County. Yard debris collected in the county is currently either composted at one of several yard
debris composters in the Clark County/Portland Metro area or used as a source of fuel in
industrial burners.

Two ﬁxed household hazardous waste collection facilities are located at CTR and West Van and
WTS facilities. These facilities are open to the public and accept household hazardous waste from
county residents at no charge.


C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT                                                       256
      CLARK2045




257        C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT
                                                  CLARK2045
        6.7: Clark County Solid Waste Fund (4014), Revenues and Expenditures 2023-2030
Type       Revenue        2023         2024         2025         2026         2027         2028         2029          2030
                          Actual       Actual      Budget      Projected    Projected    Projected    Projected     Projected
MSW        MSW           $406,345     $412,237     $418,215     $424,279     $430,431     $436,672     $443,004     $449,427
           Inbound
           Tonnage
Grants     State         $639,327     $425,941      502,500      502,500      502,500      502,500      502,500       502,500
           Grant: ECY
           LSWFA
Fees/      SW Fee:      $2,074,937   $2,183,889   $2,240,990   $2,297,015   $2,354,440   $2,413,301   $2,473,634   $2,535,475
Charges    Regional
for        Admin Fee
Services
Fees/      SW Fee:       $247,334     $241,642     $247,636     $253,827     $260,173     $266,677     $273,344     $280,178
Charges    Single-
for        Family
Services   Recycling
Fees/      SW Fee:        $40,826      $45,357      $46,264      $47,421      $48,607      $49,822      $51,068       $52,345
Charges    Multi-
for        Family
Services   Recycling
Fees/      SW Fee:       $137,961     $150,522     $153,997     $157,847     $161,793     $195,838     $169,984     $174,234
Charges    Yard
for        Debris
Services
Fees/      SW Fee:          $0.00*     $26,100      $20,000      $20,600      $21,218      $21,855      $22,511       $23,186
Charges    Curbside
for        Revenue
Services   Share
           Program
Fees/      SW Fee:       $585,049     $589,884     $598,048     $606,719     $615,517     $624,442     $633,496     $642,682
Charges    County
for        Tipping
Services   Fee*
Other      Investment    $300,616     $335,749     $300,000     $300,000     $300,000     $300,000     $300,000     $300,000
           Interest
Other      FARF          $558,745      $80,000      $80,000      $80,000      $80,000      $80,000      $80,000       $80,000
           Support of
           Solid
           Waste
           Fund
Other      Misc.            $3,973        $539         $750         $750         $750         $750         $750          $750
           Revenue
Total      All          $4,088,771   $4,079,626   $4,190,185   $4,266,679   $4,344,998   $4,425,185   $4,507,287   $4,591,350
           Revenues



        The Clark County Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Plan is used to provide the
        community with goals and policies for implementing, evaluating and modifying existing and future
        solid waste management programs. The intent of the plan is to establish the foundation for a


        C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT                                                               258
                                       CLARK2045
viable and functional system for the proper management of solid and moderate risk wastes in
Clark County. It identiﬁes source reduction, reuse, recycling and composting and as preferred
management tools. The updated Plan includes recommendations to:

   1) Focus on sustainable materials management;
   2) Implement three core outreach programs (Green Business, Green Neighbors and Green
      Schools);
   3) Master plan the Leichner Landﬁll and decommissioning the Rufener Landﬁll site;
   4) Facilitate business growth within waste related industries;
   5) Continue to rely on the private sector to fund and ﬁnance such capital improvement
      projects; and
   6) Prohibit (in-county) landﬁlls.

The existing system of the three transfer stations can be modiﬁed or upgraded, as needed and as
possible, to maintain or improve existing levels of service. In addition, the existing contract with
CRC provides the option to determine if a fourth transfer station is needed. If a fourth transfer
station is to be developed, the contract provides for CRC to propose a location and design; and,
upon County approval, permit, construct and operate the facility. CRC shall be compensated for
developing, constructing and operating the Fourth Transfer Station.

PUBLIC SAFETY COMMUNICATIONS
The county, through CRESA, researched a public safety communications upgrade countywide for
many years. As a part of the FY 1996 budget the Commissioners approved a capital budget
program of $13.5 million, to upgrade the public safety communications system. Over a two-year
period, an 800 MHz trunked radio system, purchased from Motorola Communications and
Electronics, was installed. The system is a Clark County owned proprietary system that is
compatible with the Portland, Washington County and future Clackamas County, Oregon systems.

GENERAL GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS
Clark County presently owns over 100 buildings and structures comprising 1,805,004 square feet
of total ﬂoor space, as indicated in Table 6.8. We also rent 5,000 square feet in East County.

Population growth projected through 2035 will require additional space for ofﬁces, courtrooms,
detention, maintenance and storage uses. The county will continue planning efforts for an
expanded law and justice capability. We expect adding this capacity could cost as much as $150
million. We are also looking at constructing a $10 million building on Public Works’ 149th Street
Complex to house a number of county agencies in an effort to improve service delivery to areas of
the county further north. Finally, we are investigating a small expansion of county facilities on the
Veterans’ Administration campus. This expansion would include a maintenance, service, receiving
and storage building, additional parking and park space.




259                                                 C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT
                                           CLARK2045
Table 6.8 Existing County Buildings - County Owned - County Occupied
 Building                                             Square Ft
 Fairgrounds                                             314,883
 Center for Community Health                             176,404
 Public Service Center                                   159,376
 Corrections Justice Center                              130,324
 PSC Parking Structure                                   150,159
 Jail Work Center                                         90,000
 Courthouse                                               79,383
 Juvenile Center                                          62,840
 Pepsi Warehouse                                          58,596
 Dolle Building                                           40,000
 Lewisville Park                                          31,490
 Social Service Center                                    30,725
 Health Center                                            27,886
 Franklin Center                                          25,000
 CRESA                                                    23,624
 1408 Franklin- License/Elections/Print Shop              22,976
 800 Mhz Tower Sites                                      22,320
 Public Safety Complex                                    20,000
 Building C - Shops                                       19,760
 Vancouver Lake                                           18,480
 General Services Building                                16,000
 149th Street Bldg. A1 Main WH                            16,000
 Camp Lewisville                                          11,060
 Whatley Decant Facility                                  10,800
 English Transfer Station                                 10,000
 Death Investigations                                      9,300
 Frenchman's Bar                                           9,112
 Tri Mountain Golf Course                                  7,114
 Hazel Dell                                                6,864
 Klineline (Salmon Creek)                                  6,753
 English Site and Shed                                     6,000
 78th St. Swale Maint F & G                                5,270
 North County Social Service Center                        4,563
 Orchards                                                  4,480
 149th Street Building B West WH                           3,900
 Daybreak                                                  3,732
 Mabry Complex                                             3,696
 Moulton Falls                                             3,601
 78th Street North Shed Bldg. J                            3,264
 Haapa Park                                                3,163
 149th Street Building A (Sheriff's)                       3,000
 Washougal Site and Shed                                   3,000




C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT                           260
                                      CLARK2045
 Building                                     Square Ft
 Lucia Falls                                       2,956
 Modular 78th St. - Bldg. N                        2,772
 149th Building C Fuel Island                      2,625
 78th Street Building A                            2,400
 Daybreak Site and Shed                            2,400
 Finn Hill Site and Shed                           2,400
 Maple Site and Shed                               2,400
 Salmon Creek Site                                 2,400
 78th Street Signals Bldg. H                       2,210
 Amphitheatre Pump Station                         2,000
 Livingston Radio Site & Shed                      2,000
 78th Street Building B                            1,800
 78th Street Rock Storage A                        1,800
 Drug Task Force                                   1,800
 78th St Conference Ctr Bldg. B1                   1,680
 Felida Park                                       1,500
 78th St Special Storage Bldg. L                   1,496
 149th St Bldg. D (Sign Shop)                      1,496
 78th Street Fuel Island                           1,496
 English Pit Riﬂe Range (Park)                     1,456
 78th Street Wash Rack                             1,200
 Lacamas Lake                                      1,040
 Portable 78th St. - Bldg. M                       1,040
 78th Street Building A1                           1,008
 HB Fuller 134th St. (Park)                        1,000
 Downtown Fuel Island                                880
 78th Street West Shed                               864
 78th Street Central Building E                      700
 78th Street Building D                              650
 Lewisville Fuel Island                              600
 Wolfe Creek Pump Station/99th Str.                   25
 Mountain View Pump Station                           25
 88th Street Pump Station                             25
 Harmony Sports Complex                               10
 Total                                         1,805,004



Center for Community Health
Clark County has recently completed construction of the 176,000 square foot Center for
Community Health on the Veteran’s Administration campus on Fourth Plain Boulevard. The new
building consolidates a number of community health organizations in one convenient location. The
facility provides new inpatient capabilities which will be of signiﬁcant beneﬁt to the community.




261                                              C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT
                                        CLARK2045
Clark County Exposition Cente r
In the early 2000s Clark County completed the "Clark County Exposition Center." This is a state of
the art year round multi-purpose facility located on the Fairgrounds. It is suitable for shows and
events of almost every type and contributes to the goal of making the Fairgrounds less reliant on
the annual County Fair for revenues.


COORDINATION WITH OTHER PLAN ELEMENTS
In the event that funding is insufﬁcient to meet the capital needs for any of the above described
projects, a reassessment of the land use element and other elements of the capital facilities plan
will occur. Other funding possibilities and levels of service will also be reassessed. This will be done
to make certain appropriate actions will be taken to ensure the internal consistency of the land use
and capital facilities portions of the plan.

ELECTRICITY
Electric service throughout Clark County is provided by Clark Public Utilities (CPU), a
customer-owned public utility district. About one-third of the power the utility sells its customers
is generated at the River Road Generating Plant, a combined-cycle combustion turbine that uses
natural gas to produce electricity. The remaining power supply is purchased, mainly from the
Bonneville Power Administration, a federal agency that markets power generated at federal dams
in the Paciﬁc Northwest.

The system consists of more than 100 miles of high-voltage transmission lines (69,000 and
115,000 volts), 47 substations, three switching stations and about 6,500 miles of overhead and
underground distribution lines. The facilities serve about 192,000 customers. The utility has
administrative ofﬁces in its Electric Center, 1200 Fort Vancouver Way, Vancouver. Engineering
and operations functions are located at the Ed Fischer Operations Center, 8600 N.E. 117th Avenue.
These facilities are located primarily in the urban area of the county. Most of the rural area is
served with minor facilities.

The utility routinely reviews the county’s growth plans and coordinates the construction of new
electrical facilities with those plans. Major electrical facilities are in place to serve existing utility
customers; however additional substations, transmission lines and distribution facilities will be
required to meet the needs of new customers. It should be noted that state law requires utilities to
provide electricity to all who request it.

The utility believes it has adequate supplies of electricity to meet anticipated customer demands.
Utility ofﬁcials routinely prepare projections of future demand for electricity and review available
supplies. When projections show that demand for electricity will exceed the available supply, the
utility will conduct extensive evaluations of the available options. The major options are to build
additional electrical generating capacity, purchase additional supplies of electricity, or expand
electricity conservation programs to reduce demand for power. Any one or a combination of the
options could be selected.


C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT                                                         262
                                      CLARK2045
NATURAL GAS
Granted its service territory by the Washington Utilities and Transportation Commission,
Northwest Natural Gas is the sole purveyor of natural gas in Clark County. The company serves
about 56,325 residential, 4,715 commercial and 51 industrial gas customers in the county. Its
customer base has grown rapidly over the past 10 years, reﬂecting a strong preference by builders
for natural gas heating in new homes as the county’s residential population increases.

Northwest Natural Gas receives about 20 percent of its supply from British Columbia, 60% from
Alberta and 20% from the Rocky Mountain States. Northwest Pipeline’s current and future need is
to keep its pipeline corridors accessible for maintenance.

Despite recent ﬂuctuations in energy prices, as the local distribution company of natural gas,
Northwest Natural anticipates continued strong growth in customer additions in Clark County
and is planning for future infrastructure construction and maintenance to serve the expected
need. Additional distribution lines will be constructed on an as-needed basis in accordance with
local, state and federal regulations and codes covering land use and safety issues.

Public safety has been the number one consideration in the siting and construction of new
pipelines, as reﬂected by natural gas’ superior safety record in the pipeline industry. The growth of
new development and housing subdivisions in the county to be served by natural gas will only
increase the need for stringent adherence to safety and maintenance standards for the building
and operation of transmission and distribution lines.

TELECOMMUNICATIONS
The telecommunications industry is currently in the midst of tremendous advances in technology.
Cellular and optical ﬁber technologies are transforming the way service is delivered. In addition,
the physical barriers that separate data, video and voice technologies are rapidly disappearing.
With the breakup of AT&T in 1984, new technology and new providers have entered the market at
a rapid pace and have fostered a competitive industry. There are several local and national
telecommunication companies that provide service to Clark County residents. As detailed in the
Transportation Element, Chapter 5, telecommunications will play an increasingly important role in
the transportation demand management strategy of Clark County. This will require a substantial
commitment to telecommuting and its related communication technology. In general, GTE and
Lewis River should be able to meet the growing demand for telecommunications services.
However, the county will need to work with providers to assure that employers know the beneﬁts
of telecommuting in the workplace.

LIBRARIES
The Fort Vancouver Regional Library District (FVRLD) serves an area of approximately 4,200
square miles and nearly 470,000 people in four counties. The district is diverse in its service
requirements, ranging from rural book mobile service to a self-service library in Yacolt to the
award-winning 83,000 square foot Vancouver Community Library in downtown Vancouver.



263                                                 C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT
                                              CLARK2045
Currently FVRLD provides a total of 182,341 square feet of library space in nine branches serving
Clark County, with an additional 2,376 square feet in Woodland and a 36,000 square foot
headquarters facility in downtown Vancouver.

Currently in the planning stages for libraries in Clark County:

•      FVRLD is planning the construction of two 12,000 square foot facilities in Washougal and
       Ridgeﬁeld to replace aging and undersized buildings in those locations. Both projects are in the
       process of locating suitable property for construction. Funding for these projects will come
       from a combination of capital reserves, privately raised funds through the Fort Vancouver
       Regional Library Foundation and Friends groups and capital facility bonds, if deemed
       necessary. Both projects are currently estimated to be in the $4.5 million range with
       adjustments for inﬂation assumed going forward. On October 12, 2024, Woodland opened its
       new community library. The new library is 7,560 square feet and features a community
       meeting space, separate spaces for all ages. Two study rooms, a staff workroom, and an
       outdoor courtyard.

•      FVRLD is additionally, looking to site a future facility in northeast Vancouver that could
       potentially house the district’s headquarters ofﬁces as well as a new library. This area does not
       currently have library services and is an area of growth for the county that needs to be
       addressed in the near future. FVRLD worked with Berger ABAM in 2013 to create a Strategic
       Facilities Plan.

Table 6.9 Existing Fort Vancouver Regional Library District Buildings 67
    FVRLD               Square              Own /         Year Built /
    Library             footage             Lease         Remodeled
    Battle                   14,356         Own              2009
    Ground
    Cascade Park             24,175         Own             2009
    La Center                 3,380         Lease        1905 / 2004
    Ridgeﬁeld                 2,055         Lease           1994
    Three Creeks             13,000         Own             2002
    Vancouver                83,000         Own             2011
    Vancouver                 3,575         Lease           2013
    Mall
    Washougal                 2,400         Lease           1981
    Woodland                  7,560         Own             2024
    Yacolt                      400         Lease        1908 / 2012
    Headquarters             36,000         Lease           1963
    Total                  189,901




67
     Source: FVRL Capital Facilities Plan


C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT                                                        264
                                      CLARK2045
GOALS & POLICIES

STATE GOALS & MANDATES
The statewide planning goals were adopted in 1990 as part of GMA. Included within the 15 goals
was the mandate to ensure that public services and facilities necessary to support development
shall be adequate for the development (RCW 36.70A.020).

Climate-related goals and policies within this element are noted as helping achieve greenhouse
gas reduction [GHG], resilience [RES], or both [GHG, RES].


COMMUNITY FRAMEWORK PLAN
Both the policies within the Countywide Planning Policies and the Community Framework Plan
(CFP) frame the issues and needs for the 20-Year Plan with regards to capital facilities. See Section
6.0 of the CFP for these policies.


6.0        C O U N T Y W I D E P L A N N IN G P OL I C I ES
           6.0.1       The county, state, municipalities and special districts shall work together to
                       develop realistic levels of service for urban governmental services.

           6.0.2       Plans for providing public facilities and services shall be coordinated with
                       plans for designation of urban growth areas, rural uses and for the
                       transition of undeveloped land to urban uses.

           6.0.3       Public facilities and utility services shall be planned so that service
                       provision maximizes efﬁciency and cost effectiveness and ensures
                       concurrency.

           6.0.4       The county, municipalities and special districts shall, to the greatest extent
                       possible, agree upon present and future service provision within the urban
                       area.

           6.0.5       The county, municipalities and special districts shall agree on a full range of
                       services to meet the needs of the urban area, including sewer, water,
                       stormwater management, transportation, police, ﬁre, parks, etc.

           6.0.6       The county, its municipalities and special districts shall work together to
                       ensure that the provision of public facilities and services are consistent and
                       designed to implement adopted comprehensive plans.

           6.0.7       Local jurisdictions shall establish a process to re-evaluate the land use
                       element of their comprehensive plans upon its determination that the



265                                                 C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT
                                   CLARK2045
                    jurisdiction lacks the ﬁnancing resources to provide necessary public
                    facilities and services to implement their plan.

          6.0.8     General and special purpose districts should consider the establishment of
                    impact fees as a method of ﬁnancing public facilities required to support
                    new development.

          6.0.9     The county, its municipalities and special districts will work together to
                    develop ﬁnancial tools and techniques that will enable them to secure funds
                    to achieve concurrency.

          6.0.10    The Comprehensive Plan of the county and each municipality shall include a
                    process for identifying and siting essential public facilities such as airports,
                    state education facilities and state or regional transportation facilities,
                    state and local correctional facilities, solid waste handling facilities and
                    regional parks.

          6.0.11    When siting state and regional public facilities, the county and each
                    municipality shall consider land use compatibility, economic and
                    environmental impacts and public need.

          6.0.12    The county shall work with the state, each municipality and special districts
                    to identify future needs of regional and statewide public facilities. This will
                    ensure countywide consistency and avoid duplications or deﬁciencies in
                    proposed facilities.

          6.0.13    The county, municipalities, special districts and Public Health will work
                    cooperatively to develop fair and consistent policies and incentives to:
                    eliminate private water and sewer/septic systems in the urban areas; and to
                    encourage connection to public water and sewer systems.

          6.0.14    Within Urban Growth Areas, cities, towns, and special purpose districts
                    should be the providers of urban services. Cities and towns should not
                    extend utilities without annexation or commitments for annexation.
                    Exceptions may be made in cases where human health is threatened. In
                    areas where utilities presently extend beyond city or town limits, but are
                    within Urban Growth Areas, the city, town, or special purpose districts and
                    the county should jointly plan for the development, with the county
                    adopting development regulations which are consistent with the city or
                    town standards.

          6.0.15    Plans for providing public utility services shall be coordinated with plans for
                    designation of urban growth areas, rural uses and for the transition of
                    undeveloped land to urban uses.




C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT                                                   266
                                    CLARK2045
          6.0.16     The county, municipalities and special districts shall, to the greatest extent
                     possible, agree upon present and future service provision within the urban
                     area.

          6.0.17     Establish a stormwater management plan for existing and future
                     developments that support salmon recovery objectives.

          6.0.18     The county or cities shall identify all public entities that own capital
                     facilities and endeavor in good faith to work with other public entities, such
                     as special purpose districts, to gather and include within its capital facilities
                     element the information required by RCW36.70A.070(3).

          6.0.19     The county, municipalities, school districts, library districts, other partner
                     agencies, and online communication service providers should work
                     together to provide equitable access to online communication tools and
                     infrastructure throughout the county.


C O U N T Y 20-Y E AR P L A N N I N G P O L I C I E S

GOAL:
Ensure that necessary and adequate capital facilities and services are provided to all
development in Clark County in a manner consistent with the 20-Year Plan.

6.1       Policies

          6.1.1      Continue to plan for and provide capital facilities and services as necessary
                     to support development consistent with the 20-Year Plan and coordinate
                     and facilitate the planning and provision of such facilities and services by
                     other public or private entities.

          6.1.2      The primary role of Clark County regarding service provisions shall involve
                     the planning and delivery of regional, rather than urban, services. It is the
                     policy of Clark County that, in general, cities or special service districts are
                     the most appropriate units of local government to provide urban
                     governmental services and that, in general, it is not appropriate that urban
                     governmental services be extended or expanded to rural areas except in
                     those limited circumstances shown to be necessary to protect basic public
                     health and safety and the environment and when such services are
                     ﬁnancially supportable at rural densities and do not permit urban
                     development.

          6.1.3      Explore and assist other providers to explore a variety of funding sources
                     for capital facilities and services, including a range of federal, state and
                     other grants where possible.


267                                                C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT
                                    CLARK2045
          6.1.4     Encourage and assist other utilities, service districts and providers to
                    pursue the use of impact fees, special assessment and improvement
                    districts and other local ﬁnancing techniques to fund new facilities and
                    services.

          6.1.5     Assist and facilitate the siting of capital facility and service infrastructure in
                    a manner consist with the 20-Year Plan, through appropriate land use
                    planning and development review policies and procedures.

          6.1.6     Develop a process for identifying and siting essential regional public
                    facilities such as state or regional transportation facilities, state education
                    facilities, airports, corrections facilities, solid waste handling facilities,
                    regional parks and regional stormwater facilities.

          6.1.7     Clark County incorporates by reference the sewer and water Capital
                    Facilities Plans of the Clark Regional Wastewater District, Clark Public
                    Utilities and the City of Vancouver. The county should review future
                    changes to these Capital Facilities Plans on an ongoing basis to ensure that
                    consistency with county capital facility and land use plans is maintained.

          6.1.8     Incorporate climate resilience, greenhouse gas reduction, vehicle miles
                    traveled per capita reduction, and environmental justice measures into the
                    Capital Facilities Plans and projects in alignment with the GMA climate
                    resiliency goal and the goals and policies In the Comprehensive Plan
                    Climate Element (Chapter 14). Examples include but are not limited to:

                    •   Plan and build new facilities, utilities, and infrastructure projects to
                        avoid or withstand ﬂooding, wildﬁres, landslides and associated climate
                        impacts (e.g., changing ﬂoodplains).
                    •   Develop and implement a county building greenhouse gas emissions
                        reduction plan to reduce county building energy to net zero greenhouse
                        gas emissions. Align equipment upgrades with maintenance and
                        replacement schedules.
                    •   Integrate clean renewable energy sources and backup infrastructure
                        where feasible into county building energy/operations.

                    (See additional resilience, greenhouse gas emissions, vehicle miles
                    reduction, and environmental justice policies in Chapter 14 – Climate
                    Element as well as other comprehensive plan chapters including: Chapter 1
                    – Land Use, Chapter 4 – Environment, and Chapter 5 – Transportation.)
                    [GHG, RES]




C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT                                                     268
                                    CLARK2045
GOAL:
Provide water service to all households minimizing environmental impacts and, at least,
long-term public cost.

6.2       Policies

          6.2.1      All new development in the urban area shall be served by a connection to a
                     public water system. Existing developments within the urban area using
                     private wells shall be encouraged to convert to public water usage.

          6.2.2      Private wells may be used in the rural area, subject to the review of the
                     Clark County Public Health.

          6.2.3      In cases where public water service is needed, it shall be provided by a
                     water purveyor under the following order of preference, articulated within
                     the Coordinated Water System Plan (CWSP):
                     • Direct or satellite service by the designated utility.
                     • Interim or permanent service by an adjacent utility, service areas
                         adjusted if permanent service is arranged.
                     • Satellite service on an interim basis by Clark Public Utilities, if the new
                         service is located outside Clark’s mainline service territory.
                     • Formation of a new utility; service areas are adjusted.

          6.2.4      The CWSP shall be reviewed and updated at a minimum of every ﬁve years.
                     Design standards included in the CWSP shall be reviewed and amended
                     annually, if necessary.

          6.2.5      Clark Public Utilities shall continue to be recognized as the satellite water
                     system management agency for Clark County.

          6.2.6      Clark Public Utilities may construct and manage satellite water systems
                     within the service territory of other water utilities, but only if a prior
                     agreement is reached with the utility designated by the CWSP to serve the
                     area. Such agreements shall address issues of equipment compatibility,
                     asset transfer and other issues deemed necessary by the parties.

          6.2.7      Major water utilities, including Clark Public Utilities, may construct
                     extensions of existing services in the rural area only if service is provided at
                     a level that will accommodate only the type of land use and development
                     density called for in the 20-Year Plan, recognizing maximum buildout and
                     reasonable allowances in design of facilities to promote overall system
                     efﬁciency. Extension of water service shall be permitted to public regional
                     park facilities that are outside of but adjacent to an urban growth boundary.




269                                               C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT
                                    CLARK2045
          6.2.8      Water transmission lines constructed in rural areas for the purpose of
                     connecting water systems shall limit the number of distribution line tie-ins.

          6.2.9      Water service extensions in the rural area shall be reﬂected in each
                     individual utility’s Water System Plans and adopted by reference in the
                     CWSP.

          6.2.10     Developments shall demonstrate a sufﬁcient and sustainable source of
                     water before development approval is issued.

          6.2.11     Water service plans shall be coordinated with the adopted 20-Year Plan
                     map and policies, including the designation of urban growth areas.

          6.2.12     Work with other cities and special districts to develop fair and consistent
                     policies/incentives to eliminate private water systems in urban areas and to
                     encourage connection to public water systems. Unused wells should be
                     identiﬁed and decommissioned.

          6.2.13     Practice and encourage water conservation. (See addition policies related
                     to this topic in Chapter 4 - Environment.) [RES]

          6.2.14     Work with water service providers to encourage public education and
                     outreach programs on water reuse, conservation, reclamation and other
                     new water efﬁcient technology.

          6.2.15     Encourage water pricing structures to facilitate conservation of public
                     water systems and to cover the full cost of providing water service.

GOAL:
Provide sewer service within urban growth areas eﬃciently and at least public cost.

6.3       Policies

          6.3.1      All new development in the urban area shall be served by a connection to a
                     public sewer system.

          6.3.2      Develop strategies for the conversion of on-site septic disposal systems to
                     public sewer use in the urban area.

          6.3.3      New and existing development in the rural area outside of rural centers
                     shall use individual on-site septic disposal systems, unless public sewer is
                     available. New or existing development within designated rural centers may
                     use community septic systems.

          6.3.4      Installation of new individual or community septic systems shall be subject
                     to the approval of Clark County Public Health. Installation approvals for


C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT                                                   270
                                   CLARK2045
                     new septic systems shall include agreements for mandatory future
                     monitoring unless waived by Public Health.

          6.3.5      Require regular inspections of existing on-site sewage disposal systems in
                     wellhead protection areas.

          6.3.6      Work with Public Health to support efforts to establish mandatory
                     subsurface sewage disposal septic inspection/maintenance programs for
                     existing septic systems, particularly areas needing environmental health
                     guarantees.

          6.3.7      Expand treatment facilities to meet current and future demand for
                     development within urban areas.

          6.3.8      Extension of public sewer service shall not be permitted outside urban
                     growth areas, except in response to documented health hazards; or to
                     provide public sewer to regional park facilities, or to serve a school
                     pursuant to RCW36.70A.213, K-12 public schools, in designated rural
                     centers; or where the county has contractually committed to permit public
                     sewer connection.

          6.3.9      Sewer service plans shall be coordinated with the 20-Year Planning policies
                     and maps, including urban growth area designations.

          6.3.10     Provide public education about the potential for groundwater
                     contamination from on-site sewage disposal systems.

          6.3.11     Encourage and work with sewer service providers in the development of a
                     regional sewer system.

GOAL:
Provide a long-range stormwater management program to minimize impacts of
stormwater discharge from existing and new development in changing climate
conditions. (For additional policies see Chapter 4 – Environmental Element.) [RES]

6.4       Policies

          6.4.1      Maintain clear development review standards for the control of the
                     quantity and quality of stormwater discharge from development projects
                     which emphasize on-site retention, water quality treatment and inﬁltration
                     of run-off to minimize impacts on local streams, rivers and lakes.

          6.4.2      Limit the removal of vegetation during development in order to reduce
                     stormwater run-off and erosion.




271                                              C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT
                                    CLARK2045
          6.4.3      Develop and implement comprehensive stormwater management plans, for
                     all watersheds in the county.

          6.4.4      Develop measures countywide to ensure erosion and sediment control for
                     new development, re-development and excavation projects.

          6.4.5      Explore the possible formation of regional stormwater facilities.

          6.4.6      Establish a coordinated approach with local jurisdictions to protect and
                     restore surface water and groundwater .

          6.4.7      Clark County shall monitor and update the Stormwater Code and Manual,
                     and related policies and standards to implement and enhance stormwater
                     management.

GOAL:
Coordinate with individual school districts to ensure that school sites and facilities are
constructed to meet the educational needs of county residents. (See Chapter 10 School
Element)

GOAL:
Provide police, ﬁre and emergency medical services eﬃciently and cost eﬀectively to
residents of Clark County.

6.6       Policies

          6.6.1      Encourage interjurisdictional cooperation among law enforcement and
                     corrections agencies to continue to further develop, where practicable,
                     shared service and facility use.

          6.6.2      Encourage continued and further interjurisdictional cooperation among ﬁre
                     districts where practicable, in areas of mutual aid, sharing of equipment and
                     facilities and consolidation of districts.

          6.6.3      Encourage development of community benchmarks and program
                     performance measures to monitor outcomes from public safety efforts.

          6.6.4      Mobile services such as police, ﬁre and other services may establish
                     precincts and similar facilities beyond the urban growth area. The level-of-
                     service provided in such cases should remain rural in nature.

          6.6.5      Provide for regular ﬁre and building inspections and educate about ﬁre
                     safety.




C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT                                                    272
                                   CLARK2045
          6.6.6      Continue to provide animal control services and educate about animal
                     safety.

          6.6.7      Encourage resource allocation decisions based on achievement of
                     outcomes rather than simply workload or output measures.

          6.6.8      Provide for comprehensive origin and arson ﬁre investigation across
                     jurisdictional and regional boundaries.

          6.6.9      Develop and implement a comprehensive information management system
                     for all ﬁre, law enforcement, emergency responders, general government
                     and the general population with interagency use and compatibility.

          6.6.10     Provide for regional training of ﬁre, law enforcement and other emergency
                     service providers. Provide educational and training opportunities for
                     identiﬁed segments of the population who use emergency services.

          6.6.11     Identify funding mechanisms with inter-jurisdictional participation and
                     cooperation to support regionally delivered programs.

          6.6.12     Identify and implement comprehensive emergency management plans for
                     all service providers consistent with the elements of the Comprehensive
                     Plan.

GOAL:
Provide solid waste services eﬃciently and cost-eﬀectively to residents of Clark
County. (See additional policies related to this goal in Chapter 14 – Climate Element.)

6.7       Policies

         6.7.1       Continue implementation of the county's Solid Waste Management Plan, or
                     CSWMP, to achieve solid waste goals outlined in RCW 36.70A.205 and
                     RCW 36.70A.300 the next 20 years.

         6.7.2       The CSWMP shall be reviewed and updated at a minimum of every ﬁve
                     years. CSWMP language shall be reviewed and amended annually, if
                     necessary, and when legislation changes.

         6.7.3       Expand and upgrade solid waste handling facilities to meet current and
                     future demand.

         6.7.4       Implement mandatory solid waste collection in all or parts of the county
                     and continue development and implementation of curbside collection of
                     recyclable materials in rural county areas.




273                                             C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT
                                     CLARK2045
         6.7.5       Continue on-going consideration of the needed balance in solid waste
                     disposal between land ﬁlling, incineration and recycling consider further
                     reduction measures, such as deposits, product take back programs,
                     extended producer responsibility for packaging and paper products, and
                     product container and packaging bans.

GOAL:
Facilitate the provision of utility services to the residents of Clark County. (See
additional policies related to this goal in Chapter 14 – Climate Element.) [RES]

6.8       Policies

          6.8.1      Encourage location of underground transmission lines within rights-of-way.

          6.8.2      Maintain policies for the siting of substation facilities.

          6.8.3      Encourage and coordinate with other agencies in the provision of libraries
                     and social services.

          6.8.4      Provide for adequate facilities for county government to deliver services to
                     the public.

          6.8.5      Encourage coordination with other utility providers in the provision of
                     electricity, energy, telecommunications and cable systems consistent with
                     RCW36.70A.070(4).

GOAL:
Develop speciﬁc concurrency management standards for incorporation into the
development review process, to determine the precise requirements for the timing,
funding and circumstances for the provision of concurrent services and facilities.

6.9       Policies

          6.9.1      Develop direct concurrency requirements for the provision of
                     transportation, water, sewer and stormwater facilities and services into the
                     normal development process.

          6.9.2      Develop direct or indirect concurrency requirements for school services
                     consistent with existing requirements of RCW 58.17.110.

          6.9.3      Develop provisions ensuring parks and recreation facilities are provided for
                     all developments as speciﬁed in Chapter 8, Parks and Recreation and Open
                     Space of the 20-Year Plan.




C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT                                                 274
                                    CLARK2045
          6.9.4      Capital Facilities plans for the Clark County Parks, Recreation and Open
                     Space Element shall be adopted by reference through the adoption of the
                     Supporting Documentation associated with the 20-Year Comprehensive
                     Plan.

          6.9.5      Develop standards or guidelines to determine how the sufﬁciency of
                     governmental services, including ﬁre protection, law enforcement, solid
                     waste service, telecommunications, electricity, energy, government
                     buildings, libraries and other services shall be addressed during the
                     development review process.

          6.9.6      Services should be provided and direct or indirect level-of-service
                     standards should be established, consistent with general service provision
                     levels outlined in Table 6.13.

          6.9.7      Establish a public process to re-evaluate the Land Use Element of the
                     Comprehensive Plan upon determination that ﬁnancing resources are
                     inadequate to provide necessary public facilities and services to implement
                     the plan.

GOAL:
Ensure that capital facilities and services are provided in as cost-eﬃcient manner as
possible and are consistent with the land use objectives of the 20-Year Plan and State
Growth Management Act.

6.10      Policies

          6.10.1     Coordinate land use planning and decisions with capital facilities planning
                     and service provision.

          6.10.2     Encourage and work with utilities, special districts and other service
                     providers to ensure their functional plans are consistent with county level-
                     of-service standards.

          6.10.3     Encourage and facilitate inter-jurisdictional cooperation and analysis to
                     assess ﬁscal and other impacts to service delivery related to annexation.

          6.10.4     Encourage and facilitate the exploration of shared use of facilities and
                     services between service providers where feasible. Activities to be
                     encouraged range from shared responsibility agreements between police
                     and ﬁre service providers, to development of joint facilities such as schools
                     and parks.




275                                              C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT
                                   CLARK2045
          6.10.5    Encourage compact development patterns which are more easily and
                    efﬁciently served, rather than less dense development patterns which are
                    more difﬁcult and costly to serve.

          6.10.6    Within the urban area, encourage and facilitate new development to occur
                    sooner and at greater intensities in areas where necessary services and
                    facilities are already in place and available to serve such development and
                    to a lesser extent in areas where such facilities are not yet available but can
                    be extended.

          6.10.7    To encourage maximum use of existing public facilities and services,
                    encourage new and inﬁll development in the urban area to occur at the
                    maximum densities envisioned by the 20-Year Plan.

          6.10.8    Pursue true cost pricing service policies and encourage other providers to
                    pursue similar policies, which allocate the full and true cost of connection to
                    and use of facility and service systems to new system users and do not
                    allocate costs created by systems additions to existing system users.

          6.10.9    In evaluating land use requests in the rural area, the availability of public
                    water or sewer shall not be considered as providing sole justiﬁcation or
                    providing any additional justiﬁcation in combination with other factors, for
                    applications for development densities beyond those speciﬁed by the 20-
                    Year Plan, or for proposed changes to the plan.

          6.10.10   Changes to the 20-Year Plan shall not be approved which impose inordinate
                    additional net costs on mobile, centralized services such as police, ﬁre,
                    emergency services, school busing or solid waste services.

          6.10.11   In evaluating requests for an extension of urban services or levels of service
                    beyond the urban growth boundary in a manner consistent with the 20-
                    Year Plan, Clark County shall consider the implications of such an extension
                    for future growth and development patterns. In evaluating requests for
                    changes to the urban growth boundary or other proposals for development
                    beyond the density speciﬁed by the 20-Year Plan, Clark County shall
                    consider implications of such actions for service provision and efﬁciency of
                    provision.

          6.10.12   Coordinate with and encourage continued participation of other
                    jurisdictions and service entities with the Coordinated Water System Plan,
                    the Solid Waste Management Plan and other service plans, where such
                    plans do not conﬂict with the 20-Year Plan.

          6.10.13   Mobile services such as police, ﬁre and other services should locate
                    facilities within the urban area. Precinct or substation facilities may be


C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT                                                     276
                                            CLARK2045
                          located in the rural area where necessary to serve rural population, but are
                          encouraged to locate in rural centers or areas of concentrated
                          development. The level-of-service provided must be rural in nature only.

              6.10.14     The County may invest in urban services or require that urban standards be
                          provided through development review by non-residential developments in
                          the rural area if:
                          • it is necessary to remedy threats to public health or safety; or,
                          • the lead agency can demonstrate that the service extension or the
                              application of urban development standards would yield long-term
                              capital cost savings to the jurisdiction as a whole or the investment
                              would complete an identiﬁed system which serves the entire growth
                              area (such as a trail or bicycle network); or,
                          • there is a need to permit urban service extension to a non-residential
                              development that conforms to the 20-Year Plan and serves the public
                              health, safety and welfare.

Table 6.10 General Service Provision Levels 68 69
         Service               Urban                Urban Reserve             Rural            Rural Centers
 Water                  Public water for        Coordinate water         Private Public    Public water
                        domestic and ﬁre        systems to match         water or
                        ﬂow.                    future plans,            private wells
                                                discourage potable
                                                wells for individual
                                                dwelling units or use
                                                of satellite systems.
 Sewer                  Public sewer            Septic systems with      Septic systems    Community septic
                                                mandatory                                  systems
                                                maintenance and
                                                hook-up when sewer
                                                is available.
 Storm Drainage         Gutters, pipes and      Runoff treatment and     Open              Runoff treatment and
                        regional Runoff         control facilities by    conveyance        control facilities by
                        treatment and           development projects.    system. On-site   development projects.
                        control facilities by   and.                     treatment and     .
                        development                                      control of
                        projects.                                        runoff.
 Schools                Full range of           Plan for full range of   Limited           Schools should locate
                        school facilities.      future schools.                            in rural centers.




68
     Gpm = gallons per minute
69
     Source: Clark County Department of Community Development.


277                                                        C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT
                                         CLARK2045
      Service               Urban              Urban Reserve               Rural              Rural Centers
 Police              Police protection      Sheriff services          Sheriff services   Sheriff services with
                     and facilities.                                                     potential for
                                                                                         neighborhood
                                                                                         headquarters.
 Fire                Fire ﬂow of 1,000      Fire protection rating    Fire protection    Fire protection rating
                     gpm or better.         of 3 or better; Urban     rating of 6 or     of 6 or better.
                                            ﬁre ﬂow of 1,000 gpm      less; rural ﬁre
                                            or better.                ﬂow of 500
                                                                      gpm.
 Electricity         Electricity            Electricity               Electricity        Electricity
 Parks               Neighborhood,          Plan for                  Regional parks     Rural centers may
                     community and          neighborhood,                                have neighborhood
                     regional.              community and                                parks.
                                            regional.
 Library Services    Libraries              Bookmobile                Bookmobile         Bookmobile
 Government          Facilities             Plan for future           No facilities      Limited facilities
 Buildings                                  facilities.
 Telecommunica-      Phone and ﬁber         Phone available, plan     Phone              Phone available, plan
 tion                optic services fully   for ﬁber optic services   available          for ﬁber optic services
                     available
 Natural Gas         Available              Available throughout      Available          Available throughout
                     throughout                                       throughout
 Solid Waste         Weekly collection      Centralized               Centralized        Centralized
                     from customers,        collection, mandatory     collection,        collection, mandatory
                     mandatory              recycling                 voluntary          recycling
                     recycling                                        recycling



STRATEGIES
   •    Implement water conservation techniques at existing county facilities and design new
        facilities to optimize water conservation.
   •    Require new large commercial and industrial developments and high-water users, such as
        schools, parks and golf courses, to implement water reuse and reclamation techniques.
   •    Revise zoning and subdivision ordinances to encourage design of new development that is
        capable of accommodating the long-term construction of sewer systems that efﬁciently
        accommodate population growth.
   •    Maintain a project listing of priority watersheds for basin planning and priority capital
        improvement projects.
   •    Endorse and encourage community policing and associated decentralization of police
        operations to move services closer to areas where services are demanded.




C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT                                                             278
                                     CLARK2045
   •   Encourage and invest in programs and services which provide partnerships with the
       community or other entities which help to solve local problems in a cross-disciplinary
       manner.
   •   Encourage use of a diversity of resources such as volunteers and civilians where
       appropriate to improve cost effectiveness of public safety operations.
   •   Conduct resource allocations based on achievement of outcomes rather than simply
       workload or output measures.
   •   Encourage the use of installed ﬁre protection or increased ﬁre resistive construction
       materials or design and increased use of sprinklers and alarm systems by providing
       incentives or non-penalties for their use.
   •   Encourage the development of community oriented police, ﬁre and emergency services
       programs designed to meet community identiﬁed needs.
   •   Provide increased enforcement and control of illegal dumping.
   •   Continue consideration of an east county transfer station for solid waste.
   •   Protect transmission corridors for energy resources from conﬂicting development.
   •   Develop and, if necessary, revise policies consistent with current scientiﬁc research
       regarding electrical magnetic ﬁeld impacts from high voltage electrical lines, or other
       utility transmission or substation facilities with health potential impacts. Such policies
       should at a minimum provide for notice of potential impacts to prospective residents
       adjacent or near such facilities.
   •   Incentive policies may be developed to allow adjustments of impact fees where such
       adjustments are necessary to provide or encourage the provision of a demonstrable public
       beneﬁt, provided that public share budgetary implications of such adjustments have been
       addressed.
   •   Remain engaged in the management and operation of the regional sewer utility, Discovery
       Clean Water Alliance.


C U R R EN T R E V E N U E S O U R C E S F O R C A P I T AL P R O J EC T S
General Fund: This is the basic operating fund for the city or county that comes from general tax
and revenue resources of the jurisdictions. General fund money is often used to ﬁnance capital
improvement projects. The county's general fund should decrease dramatically in the future as
cities annex incorporated lands within their UGAs.

Additional Voter Approved Financing: Voter approved ﬁnancing is debt ﬁnancing through voter
approved bonds and levies which are funded with property tax revenues. Bonds require 60
percent voter approval, levies require a simple majority. Both bond and levy ﬁnancing are
described below.

General Obligation Bonds: The cities or county can raise revenues for major capital projects by
selling tax-exempt municipal bonds and incurring debt. Bonds are basically loans from investors




279                                                C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
who are paid interest in return for their investment. The jurisdiction uses its property tax revenues
to make its interest and principal payments on the bonds.

The State of Washington limits the amount of debt that jurisdictions can incur. It does so by
limiting the amount of taxable property (measured by the property's assessed value) that can be
committed to pay off debt. In the State of Washington, jurisdictions are authorized to incur, with a
60 percent majority of voter approval, 2.5 percent of their assessed valuation in general obligation
debt for general purposes, 2.5 percent for utility related capital expenditures and 2.5 percent for
parks and open space acquisition.

Of the 2.5 percent allowed for general purposes, a jurisdiction may commit 0.75 percent without a
vote of the people. This is known as limited general obligation. An additional 0.75 percent can be
incurred to pay for long-term leases.

Property Taxes: The cities and county can raise money for general or speciﬁc purposes by
increasing property taxes through property tax levies. The State of Washington has an annual 106
percent lid on property taxes. However, with a simple majority of voter approval, cities and
counties can increase the lid and levy an additional tax on property for a speciﬁed length of time
ranging from one to 10 years for a speciﬁed purpose.

Intergovernmental Revenues: The county and cities receive grants and matching funds for major
capital projects. These revenues come from the state and federal governments for speciﬁc
projects. Some examples include the Centennial Clean Water Fund, the Water Pollution Control
State Revolving Fund and Community Development Block Grants.

Fees and User Charges: The GMA provides cities and counties with the authority to implement a
variety of taxes for use in mitigating the impacts of growth on capital facilities. User charges and
developer fees are designed to recoup the cost of providing public facilities or services by charging
all or a portion of the fee to those who beneﬁt from such services. As a tool for affecting the pace
and pattern of development such fees may vary for the quantity and location of services provided.
Examples include impact fees, utility taxes and special assessment fees.

Lease Purchase: The city and counties can engage in lease purchase agreements for purchasing
major equipment like ﬁre trucks or 9-1-1 communications systems. There are a number of reasons,
besides current market conditions, which make lease purchase agreements attractive. A primary
advantage is leasing a building with an option to buy eliminates the need for the jurisdiction to
issue bonds to build a facility. The lease payments are not considered as debt service and thus do
detract debt capacity. Since there is no obligation to buy, the jurisdiction can move as growth
occurs. A potential disadvantage is that the lease purchase payments can cost more than current
rents. A lease purchase agreement does not require voter approval.

Timber Excise Tax: The county and other local taxing districts (excluding cities) can enact a local
timber excise on private timber at a rate of 4 percent, which is allowed as a credit against the State
tax.



C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT                                                     280
                                       CLARK2045
Potential New Revenue Sources for Capital Projects

In addition to current revenue sources, there are a number of other ﬁnancing options that could
potentially be used for capital projects. A brief discussion of some potential sources is conducted
below.

Mandatory Dedications or Fees in Lieu of: The city or county may require, as a condition of plat
approval, that subdivision developers dedicate a certain portion of the land in the development or
an equivalent fee in lieu of dedication be used for public purposes, such as roads, parks or schools.

Impact Fees: Several cities and counties in the region impose fees on developers to ﬁnance parks,
schools and roads through the provision of the GMA. These impact fees are assessed on the
construction of new homes and other buildings. The fees must reﬂect the costs of providing capital
facilities needed to serve the new development. Some local school districts and jurisdictions in
Clark County currently use impact fees to ﬁnance their capital facilities.

Special Assessment Districts: Special assessment districts implement ﬁnancing methods for
capital facilities which require partial or complete ﬁnancing by entities other than the jurisdiction.
These ﬁnancing alternatives include those that require ﬁnancial participation by the existing
property owner or developers. Special assessment bonds are restricted to uses related to the
purpose for which the district was created. Most typical types of districts include Local
Improvement Districts, Road Improvement Districts and Utility Local Improvement Districts.

Growth Induced Tax Revenues: This revenue raising technique would divert some of the
incremental tax revenue generated by new growth into a capital fund so that it could be used to
ﬁnance infrastructure improvements necessary to support growth. For example, a certain
percentage of the increment in property tax revenue generated by new growth could be diverted
for a speciﬁc number of years into a special capital projects fund. Money in that fund would be
restricted to use for growth related capital project.

Regional Tax Base Sharing: Regional tax base sharing is a technique for redistributing local
government revenues among jurisdictions in a metropolitan area. It generally involves placing a
portion of the growth-related tax revenues collected by each jurisdiction into a pool and then
redistributing the pooled revenue among the jurisdictions according to a speciﬁed formula. The
redistribution formula attempts to address ﬁscal imbalances or inequities that result from such
factors as the inequity in tax generating capacity and public costs among jurisdictions, the unequal
distribution among jurisdictions of public facilities that serve the regional population (e.g., the
Salmon Creek Wastewater Treatment Plant) and the concentration of both high and low tax
generating users in speciﬁc jurisdictions. Tax base sharing is not widely used in the United States.

Stormwater Utility: Requires a basin plan to be adopted by Board of County Councilors similar to
existing Burnt Bridge Creek Utility as authorized by RCW 36.89 and 36.94.

System Development Charges: May be used for stormwater control and treatment facilities as
authorized under RCW 36.94.


281                                                 C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
Voter Approved Real Estate Excise Transfer Taxes: In addition to the one-half-of-one percent of
Real Estate Excise Transfer (REET) tax authorized by the State Legislature, cities and counties
authorized to plan under GMA may also ask voters to approve additional REET taxes for planning
and for open space acquisition.

Conservation Futures: The Conservation Futures levy is provided for in Chapter 84.34 of the
Revised Code of Washington. Boards of County Councilors may impose by resolution a property
tax up to six and one-quarter cents per thousand dollars of assessed value for the purpose of
acquiring interest in open space, farm and timber lands. The Board of Clark County Councilors
adopted the Conservation Futures levy in October 1985. Conservation Futures funds may be used
for acquisition purposes only. Funds may be used to acquire mineral rights, and leaseback
agreements are permitted. The statute prohibits the use of eminent domain to acquire property.

Real Estate Excise Tax: Chapter 84.46 of the Revised Code of Washington authorizes the
governing bodies of counties and cities to impose excise taxes on the sale of real property within
limits set by the statute. The authority of counties may be divided into four parts.

   1. The Board of Councilors may impose a real estate excise tax on the sale of all real property
      in unincorporated parts of the county at a rate not to exceed 1/4 of 1 percent of the selling
      price to fund "local capital improvements," including parks, playgrounds, swimming pools,
      water systems, bridges, sewers, etc. Also, the funds must be used "primarily for ﬁnancing
      capital projects speciﬁed in a capital facilities plan element of a comprehensive plan . . .”
      This tax is now in effect in Clark County.
   2. The Board of Councilors may impose a real estate excise tax on the sale of all real property
      in the unincorporated parts of the county at a rate not to exceed 1/2 of 1 percent, in lieu of
      ﬁve-tenths of one percent sales tax option authorized under RCW 82.14.040 (2). These
      funds are not restricted to capital projects. The statute provides for a repeal mechanism.
      However, this levy is not available to Clark County, because it has implemented a portion
      of its discretionary sales tax option.
   3. In counties that are required to prepare comprehensive plans under the Growth
      Management Act, Boards of Councilors are authorized to impose an additional real estate
      excise tax on all real property sales in unincorporated parts of the county at a rate not to
      exceed 1/4 of 1 percent. These funds must be used "solely for ﬁnancing capital projects
      speciﬁed in a capital facilities plan element of a comprehensive plan."
   4. With voter approval, Boards of Councilors may also impose a real estate excise tax on each
      sale of real property in the county at a rate not to exceed 1 percent of the selling price for
      the speciﬁc purpose of acquiring and maintaining "local conservation areas."

Real Estate Excise Tax - Local Conservation Areas: With voter approval, Boards of County
Councilors may impose an excise tax on each sale of real property in the county at rate not to
exceed one percent of the selling price for the purpose of acquiring and maintaining conservation
areas. The authorizing legislation (RCW 82.46) deﬁnes conservation areas as "land and water that
has environmental, agricultural, aesthetic, cultural, scientiﬁc, historic, scenic, or low-intensity
recreational value for existing and future generations..." These areas include "open spaces,


C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT                                                    282
                                     CLARK2045
wetlands, marshes, aquifer recharge areas, shoreline areas, natural areas and other lands and
waters that are important to preserve ﬂora and fauna."




283                                               C APITAL F ACILITIES AND U TILITIES E LEMENT
CHAPTER
PARKS, RECREATION & OPEN
SPACE ELEMENT
                           7
                                      CLARK2045

CHAPTER 7
Parks, Recreation & Open Space Element

INTRODUCTION
Clark County’s diverse landscape stretches from the foothills of the Cascades to the Columbia and
Lewis Rivers. The quality of life of the county’s residents is signiﬁcantly improved by these
forested and riparian landscapes. Additionally, the county’s rich agricultural and forestry history
contributes a tapestry of cultural storylines further enhancing the lives of those who live in Clark
County. These vital natural and cultural resources contribute to the physical, mental and
emotional well-being of county residents and are integral to attracting employment and business
interest to the community. Preservation of these county assets both natural and agricultural is a
vital component of the county comprehensive plan. Chapter 7, with guidance from the state’s
Growth Management Act (GMA), outlines a strategy for acquisition, development and
maintenance of a urban and rural parks recreation and open space system to include habitat
preservation and regional recreational trails.

One of the GMA’s 15 primary goals is to “Encourage the retention of open space and development
of recreational opportunities, to conserve ﬁsh and wildlife habitat, increase access to natural
resource lands and water and develop parks.” Clark County adopted its ﬁrst Comprehensive Parks
and Recreation Plan in 1965, with updates in 1975, 1981, 1987, 2000, 2002, 2015, and 2022. The
state Growth Management Act requires local parks plans as a component of county master plans
(RCW 36.70A.070(8) Mandatory elements of the comprehensive plan.)

GMA goals and policies that intersect with the Parks, Recreation and Open Space Element include:
Chapter 1 – Land Use Element, Chapter 4 – Environment Element, and Chapter 14 – Climate
Element. See these chapters for comprehensive discussion of these topics, some of which overlap
with Parks, Recreation and Open Space. Climate-related goals and policies within this element are
denoted in the goals and policies section of this chapter.

From 1997 to 2013, the county park system outside of the other metropolitan areas of the county
was jointly planned and managed with the City of Vancouver via an interlocal agreement (ILA),
which was not renewed in 2013. The Clark County Parks Division was created in 2014 under the
Department of Public Works and the associated Clark Parks Advisory Board was also established
in 2014. Operations, maintenance, planning and development of the park system was managed
using the previous comprehensive plan policies that were developed under the previous ILA with
the City of Vancouver.




285                                              P ARKS , R ECREATION & O PEN S PACE E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
COUNTY & DISTRICT PARKS GUIDANCE

G R E A T E R C L A R K P A R K S D I S T R IC T B O A R D
The Clark County Council acts as the Greater Clark Parks District (GCPD) Board to oversee the
operations, maintenance, acquisition and development activities that occur within the GCPD and
throughout the unincorporated areas of the County. The GCPD Board also appoints seven (7)
members to three (3) -year terms to serve in an advisory capacity on the Clark County Parks
Advisory Board.


CLARK COUNTY PARKS ADVISORY BOARD
The Parks Advisory Board (PAB), which meets monthly to discuss projects and hear citizens’
concerns and ideas, played a key role in developing policies and capital improvement priorities.
The Clark County Council reviews all major policy issues faced by the Parks Division. County
Council also reviews and approves the Parks Recreation and Open Space (PROS) Plan and the
Capital Improvement Plan (CIP), which includes the acquisition of new property and new park
development.

GREATER CLARK PARKS VISION & MISSION
Vision: Clark County envisions a community rich in natural resources, parklands, and open spaces,
which sustain and support our local community, economy, and quality of life. To achieve this vision,
we strive to:

      Provide quality parks, lands, and recreational experiences to all of Clark County.
      Facilitate and engage in environmental programs to maximize ecosystem services.
      Empower our employees to be innovative collaborators and problem-solvers.
      Utilize an open and honest communication style both internally and externally focused on
       sustainability, inclusion, and equity.

Mission: Parks and Nature and Lands Management Divisions strive to strategically preserve, care
for, and protect our community lands for the use, enjoyment, inspiration, and beneﬁt by present and
future generations.

2022 CLARK COUNTY PARKS, RECREATION & OPEN
SPACE PLAN
The Parks Element (Chapter 7) along with the Washington State Recreation and Conservation
Ofﬁce (RCO) Manual 2 Planning Guidelines direct local governments in the development of a Parks
Recreation and Open Space Plan (PROS Plan). The PROS Plan is a six-year plan that anticipates the




P ARKS , R ECREATION & O PEN S PACE E LEMENT                                                    286
                                      CLARK2045
programming and capital improvement needs for parks, recreation, open space, and trails in a given
parks district.

The PROS plan provides direction for the future priorities of the parks system over a six (6) -year
period, qualiﬁes the county for eligibility for state and federal grant resources, sets a path for
fulﬁlling the requirements for a parks element within the comprehensive plan as part of the State
of Washington Growth Management Act (GMA) and reﬂects the guidance from the Clark County
PAB related to recreational needs and priorities of the community. The PAB guided the planning
process for this PROS Plan from the development of the vision, mission and goals to the
recommendations, capital facilities plan and other implementation tools.


GUIDING DOCUMENTS
The 2022 PROS plan draws from and builds on previous planning work for the park, recreation,
trail and open space system, including:

      2020 Lewis & Clark Regional Trail Concept Plan
      2022-2027 Natural Areas Acquisition Plan
      2015-2035 Clark County Comprehensive Growth Management Plan
      2015 Buildable Lands Report
      2015 Parks, Recreation and Open Space Plan
      2014 Clark County Conservation Areas Acquisition Plan
      2012 Aging Readiness Plan
      2010 Clark County Bicycle and Pedestrian Master Plan
      2010 Bi-State Regional Trails System Plan
      2007 Vancouver-Clark Comprehensive Parks, Recreation and Open Space Plan
      2004 Clark County Comprehensive Plan
      2004 Sports Field Needs Assessment
      2003 Conservation Areas Acquisition Plan
      2000 Clark County Regional Comprehensive Parks, Recreation and Open Space Plan
      1998 Clark County Sports Fields Master Plan
      1992 Clark County Open Space Commission Report
      Annual Intertwine Trail Counts & Surveys

Highlights from relevant portions of the guiding documents cited above are summarized in the
2022-2027 PROS Plan.

DEMAND AND NEEDS ANALYSIS
The PROS Plan provides an inventory, needs assessment and goals for the Vancouver urban area
park districts and for regional parks and meets the RCO Manual 2 Planning Guidelines. The needs
assessment is based on public involvement and established Level of Service Standards (LOS) that
are described in acres of park land/1,000 residents. LOS is established through consultation with
the public and must fall within an established range to be considered compliant with GMA.

287                                               P ARKS , R ECREATION & O PEN S PACE E LEMENT
                                         CLARK2045
A multi-step process will be used to assess demand and need for each type of park and
recreational facility in Clark County. The methodology for determining demands and need varied
by facility type and the methodologies are described below. Generally, county park standards
were matched against existing inventories of park land and service area populations.

CAPITAL FACILITIES PLAN
The Capital Facilities Plan (CFP) includes an inventory analysis, development of a deferred
maintenance list and public engagement. The plan will identify new park development,
stewardship capital improvements and major maintenance priorities to accomplish over a ten (10)
-year period. Criteria is developed and used that ranks the projects by and between park
categories to ensure equity, ﬁnancial responsibility and a high overall return on investment. The
CFP is the overarching document that outlines potential funding sources for the development of
the six (6) -years Parks Capital Improvement Plan.

CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN
The Parks Division develops a Capital Improvement Plan (CIP) that identiﬁes major maintenance,
stewardship capital and new park capital projects over a six (6) -year period. Funding for all
projects within the CIP are identiﬁed by source and are fully funded to be included in an adopted
CIP. A Parks CIP is revised and adopted annually by the County Council.

PARK & OPEN SPACE FACILITIES IN CLARK COUNTY
The Greater Clark Parks District owns and manages over 8,000 acres of dedicated park land and
public open space, and an additional 70 miles of trail property. These lands are divided into two
categories: urban and regional facilities. Urban facilities include neighborhood parks, community
parks and urban open space. Regional facilities include regional parks, conservation and greenway
systems, trails and special facilities. Clark County owns and manages the following park system
within the urban area as shown in Table 7.1.

Table 7.1 Clark County Urban Park System (Unincorporated area of VUGA only) 70
       Type of Park     Number of      Acreage
         Facility        Facilities     Total
 Neighborhood               47           243
 Community                  14          478.5
 Urban Natural               8          120.1
 Areas
 Joint School/park           4            32




70
     Per data provided in the 2022 PROS Plan

P ARKS , R ECREATION & O PEN S PACE E LEMENT                                                  288
                                        CLARK2045
U R B AN F AC I L I T IE S
Urban recreation facilities include neighborhood parks, community parks and urban open spaces.
Trails, whether local or regional, are urban facilities when traversing an urban area. The county
develops and maintains urban recreation facilities in the Vancouver Unincorporated Urban Area
(VUUA), along with the other incorporated cities in the county.


NEIGHBORHOOD PARKS
Neighborhood parks provide access to basic recreation opportunities for nearby residents,
enhance neighborhood identity and preserve neighborhood open space. These parks are designed
primarily for non-organized recreation. Located within walking and bicycling distance of most
users, these parks are generally one-half to ﬁve acres in size and primarily serve residents within a
half-mile radius. Access is pedestrian-oriented; therefore, park sites should be located so that
persons living within the service area will not have to cross a major arterial street to get to the site.
Neighborhood parks often include amenities such as playgrounds, turf areas, pathways and trails,
picnic tables, sports courts and benches.

Park services at the neighborhood level are provided in several ways. Schools meet an important
part of the neighborhood recreational need and some elementary school sites have been included
under the neighborhood/school classiﬁcation if they have neighborhood park elements.
Neighborhood parks complement and expand on the services provided by school grounds. In
certain areas, neighborhood parks are located adjacent to schools or involve developing and
upgrading the school site.


C O M M U N I T Y P AR K S
Community parks provide a focal point and gathering place for broad groups of users. Usually 20
to 100 acres in size, community parks are used by all segments of the population and generally
serve residents within a three (3) -mile radius of the park site. Community parks often include
recreation facilities for organized activities, such as sports ﬁelds, sport courts, skate parks and
community gardens. Recreation facilities at the community park level can also be provided by
incorporating junior and senior high school sport facilities into the park development. Access to
community parks may be by car, bicycle, or on foot. The range of facilities provided will be greater
than in neighborhood parks and will generally appeal to more diverse user groups. Community
parks may also incorporate passive recreation space and community facilities such as walking
trails, off-leash dog areas and disc golf courses. Because of their large service areas, community
parks require more support facilities, such as parking and restrooms.




289                                                 P ARKS , R ECREATION & O PEN S PACE E LEMENT
                                       CLARK2045
U R B AN O P E N S P A C E
Urban open spaces, also known as urban natural areas, are primarily undeveloped spaces, which
are managed for both their natural, ecological value and for light-impact recreational use. These
areas can provide relief from urban density and may also preserve or protect environmentally
sensitive areas, such as endangered animal habitat and native plant communities. Public access to
these areas can provide passive recreational opportunities, where compatible with resource
protection. Where these greenspaces can be connected along stream corridors they provide
valuable wildlife habitat and other ecological beneﬁts. The site may or may not be improved, but
can include trails, greenway corridors and an area within a community or neighborhood park
which is left in its natural state. Selection of urban green space sites is based on a variety of
criteria, including linking to other open spaces, schools or public facilities, the need for open space
in an area, existing parks and open space in the area and preservation of natural resources.


U R B AN P AR K S T A N D A R D S
The PROS Plan identiﬁes a combined acquisition level of service standard for neighborhood,
community parks, and natural areas of approximately six (6) -acres per 1,000 residents. The
reason for this combined standard is recognition that individual standards may not be attainable in
certain areas due to existing and proposed development, which may eliminate the availability of
parcels large enough to accommodate these parks. Within the combined six (6) -acre standard, the
preferred distribution is two (2) -acres for neighborhood parks, and three (3) -acres for community
parks, and one (1) -acre for natural areas.

Neighborhood/Community Park Acquisition Standard

   •   5 acres/1,000 population.

Neighborhood/Community Park Development Standard

   •   All new and re-developing neighborhood and community parks to design standards as
       contained in the PROS plan.

Urban Open Space Acquisition Standard

   •   1 acre/1,000 population.

Urban Open Space Development Standard

   •   Not Applicable.

The county has adopted a level-of-service standard of six (6) -acres per 1,000 population, for
community and neighborhood parks and natural areas which already exceeds national trends.



P ARKS , R ECREATION & O PEN S PACE E LEMENT                                                       290
                                      CLARK2045
These parks and natural open spaces become more critical as densities within the urban area
increase.


R E C R E A T I O N F AC I L IT I E S R E G I O N A L P A R K S
A regional park is an area with natural or man-made qualities for outdoor recreation, such as play
areas, picnicking, boating, ﬁshing, swimming, camping and trail uses, serving residents from
throughout Clark County and beyond. It will typically serve several communities within one hour
driving time, although closeness to population centers is desired Clark County's existing regional
parks range in size from 48 to more than 440 acres and provide 2,603 acres of parkland, with
approximately 13% of that acreage developed for a variety of day uses. Regional parks also include
sub-classiﬁcation of parks including special use facilities and Boat Ramps.

 REGIONAL NATURAL AREAS
The County’s 2022 Natural Areas Acquisition Plan (NAAP) provides the direction and focus for
conserving and connecting signiﬁcant open spaces and natural resources. Clark County possesses
a rich variety of landscapes and natural resources that enhance the quality of life for all Clark
County residents. Natural resources range from the Columbia River to the Cascade Mountains
and include a diversity of streams and lakes, marshes, wetlands, shorelines, meadows and forests.
These land and water resources provide critical habitat for ﬁsh and wildlife and provide
opportunities for hiking, canoeing, picnicking, swimming and other outdoor recreation activities.
Conservation and protection of these properties is provided through the Legacy Lands Program.
This program takes the lead in the planning, acquisition, management and stewardship for the
county’s natural areas.


TRAILS
The county has adopted a comprehensive Trails and Bikeway System Plan (April 2006) and a Bicycle
and Pedestrian Master Plan (2010) that identiﬁes a countywide trail system, including trails for
biking, hiking and horseback riding, which is incorporated by reference. The 2022 County PROS
identiﬁes six (6) trail types, which include:

      Regional Trail: Multi-use trails that provide the major access networks across the County
      Connector Trail: Connects parks and neighborhoods to regional multi-use trails and
       typically includes bike lanes and routes
      Park / Local Path: Interior paths or point-to-point routes in public spaces
      Special Use Trail: BMX/mountain bike ﬂow, skill training, designed for special use
      Soft-surface trails on public lands
      Water Trail: Navigable waterway along rivers & lakes

Trails use represents the highest known level of participation for public outdoor recreation across
the county and state. The county included trail development within its park impact fee program to


291                                              P ARKS , R ECREATION & O PEN S PACE E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
assist in the implementation of trail connections, since the lack of dedicated funding posed a
continual challenge for closing the gaps on the need and demand for more trail linkages.


W I L D L I F E H A B IT A T
Wildlife habitat is preserved within designated natural areas. These natural areas are primarily
undeveloped spaces, which are managed for both their natural and ecological values and where
appropriate for light-impact recreational use. These areas can range in size from one to thousands
of acres, and may include wetlands, wildlife habitats, or stream corridors and other natural
resources necessary to support ﬁsh and wildlife populations. Clark County has used several
methods to map and/or designate its highest priority habitat and critical/sensitive lands (e.g., high-
quality wetlands). These include the Clark County Open Space Commission Report, GMA critical
lands designations, Washington State Priority Habitat and Species Program, Washington
Conservation Commission Fish Distribution Maps and Limiting Factors Analyses and Lower
Columbia Steelhead Conservation Initiative. While these programs utilized different
methodologies to identify high-priority wildlife habitat within designated natural areas, the results
produce similar or complementary ﬁndings and lead to consistent preservation priorities. The
county’s Natural Areas Acquisition Plan collates these and other mapping efforts into the county’s
high-value conservation lands map layer, which helps to prioritize Legacy Lands acquisitions
across the county.


R E G I O N A L S P EC IA L F AC IL I T I E S
Special facilities of regional signiﬁcance are generally located and developed to serve one or
several needs of the community for recreational, historical, cultural, environmental and
educational activities. Regional special facilities range from active recreation areas such as sports
ﬁeld complexes and camping facilities to more passive activities such as scenic overlooks and
botanical gardens. These facilities may be located within or in proximity to regional conservation
and greenway areas, regional parks and/or regional trails and may be provided by either public or
private entities. There is no minimum standard or minimum size for a majority of regional special
facilities however, the site must be large enough to accommodate the speciﬁc use. The Heritage
Farm located on NE 78th Street, which the county owns and leases to Washington State University
agricultural extension service is an example of a special facility.


R E G I O N A L P AR K S T A N D A R D S
The regional park system is comprised of regional parks, linear parks and greenways, regional
special facilities, and regional natural areas. Population-based standards as provided in the PROS
plan for regional parks and special facilities and resource-based standards for conservation and
greenway systems and trails are adopted as part of this Element. Level of service standards (LOS)
established in the 2022 PROS Plan requires 10 acres per 1,000 population, with a development
standard targeting at least 18% (equivalent to 1.8 acre per 1,000) of each regional park site. As of


P ARKS , R ECREATION & O PEN S PACE E LEMENT                                                     292
                                          CLARK2045
2022, regional park acreage in Clark County totaled 2,603.5 acres, which represents a LOS deﬁcit
of 2,288.6. Clark County’s regional park system standards include the following basic amenities:
restrooms and parking; trails that access both park features and natural spaces; and, special
outdoor recreation activities where feasible.

There are no national standards for conservation and greenway systems and trails because they
are based on the natural resources within a given community.

Acquisition Goal

     •   10 acres/1,000 population

Development Standard

     •   18% of site developed

Desired minimum size

     •   200 acres

Typically, greenways follow rivers, streams, creeks, ravines and other natural corridors; there is no
standard or minimum size. Corridors should be of sufﬁcient width to protect the resource.
Corridors can be deﬁned by either built or natural features, such as vegetation, bluff lines, water
features, roads or other existing development.

The PROS Plan calls for trailheads with provisions for vehicle parking, consistent signage and
interpretive markers and educational information but does not have an adopted standard for its
trails and greenways. The 2022 Natural Areas Acquisition Plan (NAAP), which has been adopted
as part of the 2022 PROS Plan, provides direction and focus for conservation and connection of
signiﬁcant open spaces and natural resources. The NAAP seeks to preserve sites that have unique
or rare conservation values and has identiﬁed 19 watershed-based subareas within the GCPD and
uses GIS mapping information to highlight high-value conservation lands and project
opportunities. Public need and available funding shall guide acquisition and development (see
Table 7.2). Standards for design construction are provided in the Trails and Bikeways System Plan.
The county shall develop trails using the Trails and Bikeways System Plan and standards as a guide.

Table 7.2 Clark County Regional Park System 71
       Regional       Current      Current       Relative to
        Parks          Acres       Deﬁcit         Standard
 Acquisition             2,603.4   1751.6       5.98 ac/1000
 Development               361.1    422.9          7.21%
                                                 developed


71
     Source: Based on the 2022 park inventory

293                                                     P ARKS , R ECREATION & O PEN S PACE E LEMENT
                                        CLARK2045


OTHER AGENCY FACILITIES
Federal, state and other local agencies own and manage park, recreation and open space lands as
well. Table 7.3 provides a summary of these lands and ownership and is reﬂective of information
contained in the 2022 PROS Plan.

Table 7.3 Summary of Federal, State and Local Agency Park and Open Space Land within Clark County
 Jurisdiction / Agency                            Acreage
 US Forest Service                                    1,239
 National Park Service                                  209
 US Fish and Wildlife Service                         6,243
 Washington Dept. of Fish and Wildlife                3,075
 Washington Dept. of National Resources              60,000
 Washington State Parks and Recreation                  884
 Commission
 Port of Camas-Washougal                                  75
 Washington Department of Transportation                  16
 City of Vancouver Parks & Recreation                  1,577
 City of Camas                                           808
 City of Washougal                                        88
 City of Battle Ground                                   140
 City of Ridgeﬁeld                                       154
 City of La Center                                        20
 Town of Yacolt                                            5
                                        TOTAL        74,533




SCHOOL DISTRICTS
There are eleven public school districts in Clark County. These schools provide a variety of
recreational facilities, including tennis courts, soccer, baseball and football ﬁelds, tracks,
basketball courts and children's play equipment. Residents frequently use school facilities. Some
school properties have developed parks on or adjoining the school site by the county with an
agreement between the county and school district concerning the use of the facilities. The school
will use the park during the school day, while the community will have access to it at other times.
The cooperation saved money for both the city/county and the school district. However, increasing
standards related to safety and security of school grounds may affect availability of shared use.




P ARKS , R ECREATION & O PEN S PACE E LEMENT                                                        294
                                           CLARK2045
P R I V AT E F A C I L IT I E S
Private recreational facilities exist throughout Clark County. The private facilities provide for a
wide range of recreational activities generally on a fee basis. The private recreation industry
inﬂuences recreation planning by providing much needed facilities, thereby easing the burden on
public recreational facilities. Individual special facilities are listed in the inventory of regional
special facilities (see the Regional Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan).

TREE CANOPY COVERAGE
Clark County Public Works collaborated with the Clark Conservation District and the Department
of Natural Resources to complete an Urban Tree Canopy Assessment in May, 2025. This
assessment provides an evaluation of tree canopy coverage within the unincorporated urban
growth areas in the county. Table 7.4 provides a summary of the results.

Table 7.4 Tree canopy potential (existing, possible, and unsuitable) in urban growth areas of Clark County
(percentages based on the land area excluding water bodies). 72
     Urban Tree Canopy Potential         Acres         % of
                Class                                  Total
 Existing Canopy                          9,866        28%
 Possible Planting Area                  11,741        33%
 Unsuitable for Planting                 14,103        39%



Additional details on tree canopy coverage in the unincorporated urban growth areas and the
methodology for the assessment are included in the Urban Tree Canopy Assessment report.

GOALS & POLICIES
The Growth Management Act makes many references to the importance of parks, recreation and
open space. Goal 9 of the Act states that local governments should:

" Retain open space and green space, enhance recreational opportunities, enhance ﬁsh and wildlife
habitat, increase access to natural resource lands and water, and develop parks and recreation facilities".

The Act calls for provision of greenbelts and open space areas within and between urban areas.
Other provisions of the Act, such as those relating to the environment and public facilities and
services, contain language that addresses park, recreation and open space issues. The GMA also
mandates that a park and recreation element implements, and is consistent with, the capital
facilities plan element as it relates to park and recreation facilities, and shall include: (a) Estimates
of park and recreation demand for at least a ten-year period; (b) an evaluation of facilities and
service needs; (c) an evaluation of tree canopy coverage within the urban growth area; and (d) an

72
     Source: Urban Tree Canopy Assessment for Clark County, Washington Urban Growth Areas, May, 2025

295                                                     P ARKS , R ECREATION & O PEN S PACE E LEMENT
                                     CLARK2045
evaluation of intergovernmental coordination opportunities to provide regional approaches for
meeting park and recreational demand.

This 20-Year Plan contains the goals and policies for parks, recreation and open space, which are
compiled from the PROS. These goals and policies are intended to guide the acquisition and
development of park facilities and recreational programs and to provide guidance to the county's
development review process. The county will continue to plan for urban parks, in cooperation with
cities, in unincorporated urban areas. As a provider of countywide regional services, Clark County
will focus available resources on regional facilities and services that beneﬁt all county residents
regardless of location.


7.0        COUNTYWIDE PLANNING POLICIES
           7.0.1      The county and each municipality shall identify open space corridors,
                      riparian areas, important isolated open space and recreational areas within
                      and between urban growth areas and should prepare a funding and
                      acquisition program for this open space. Open space shall include lands
                      useful for parks and recreation, ﬁsh and wildlife habitat, trails, public access
                      to natural resource lands and water and protection of critical areas.


C O U N T Y 20-Y E AR P L A N N I N G P O L I C I E S

URBAN PARKS
GOAL:
Forge strong public, private and non-proﬁt partnerships.

7.1        Policies

           7.1.1      Develop partnerships with public and private organizations to increase
                      parks and recreation opportunities.

           7.1.2      Initiate the formation of a regional sports council to actively advocate for a
                      regional sports complex to create a tournament level facility and provide
                      valuable recreation and economic beneﬁts.

           7.1.3      Collaborate with other agencies in developing and operating parks and
                      recreational facilities for the regional population, such as water access,
                      trails and regional parks.

           7.1.4      Cooperate with other public and private agencies, as well as with private
                      landowners, to acquire and conserve land and other resources to provide
                      quality park and recreation facilities.


P ARKS , R ECREATION & O PEN S PACE E LEMENT                                                       296
                                   CLARK2045
         7.1.5      Facilitate active partnerships with schools, ports and utilities to help
                    implement regional trail connections and safe routes to parks.

GOAL:
Promote and market the county’s parks system.

7.2      Policies

         7.2.1      Promote Clark County as an outdoor recreation and tourism destination by
                    effectively marketing the county’s parks, trails, special facilities, open
                    spaces and natural resources.

         7.2.2      Establish a brand identity for Clark County Parks, with a consistent look
                    and feel through educational and promoting materials.

         7.2.3      Produce mapping and “wayﬁnding” for parks and trails that reﬂects the
                    county parks identity and adds value to the park and trail user’s experience.

         7.2.4      Enhance the county parks web presence with active engagement of social
                    media.

         7.2.5      Incorporate park and trail mapping and “wayﬁnding” into the county park
                    website.

         7.2.6      Engage CVTV to produce park and trail stories that serve to inform the
                    community about the variety of outdoor recreation resources available in
                    the county.

         7.2.7      Actively engage local media to report on county parks activities, events,
                    volunteer work parties, etc.

         7.2.8      Actively engage in and support Intertwine Alliance activities and events to
                    capture the value of collaboration across organizations and agencies in the
                    metropolitan region.

GOAL:
Embrace a balanced strategy for achieving a comprehensive parks system.

7.3      Policies

         7.3.1      Pursue land acquisition to provide geographically accessible regional parks
                    and equitable distribution of urban parks. [RES]




297                                            P ARKS , R ECREATION & O PEN S PACE E LEMENT
                                    CLARK2045
          7.3.2      Preserve the region’s scenic beauty through protected open space areas
                     and corridors and provide outdoor recreation, where appropriate.

          7.3.3      Continue implementing the Regional Trail and Bikeway Systems Plan and
                     coordinate with public and private stakeholders to develop a trails and
                     bikeways network. [RES]

          7.3.4      Open discussions with parks and recreation agencies to identify high priority
                     projects across city jurisdictions to jointly seek funding and otherwise
                     collaborate on their implementation. [RES]

GOAL:
Ensure equity and access to parks and trails and facilities for a healthy community.

7.4       Policies

          7.4.1      Accessibility: Follow the Americans with Disabilities Act and incorporate
                     ADA Accessibility Guidelines to ensure equal and maximum accessibility
                     for all users. [RES]

          7.4.2      Parks: Offer a range of active and passive recreation experiences for
                     diverse age groups, interests and abilities. [RES]

          7.4.3      Trail System: Promote active lifestyles by providing more trails connections
                     and coordinate with other jurisdictions and providers to create a seamless
                     system. [RES]

          7.4.4      Water Access: Provide safe and appropriate water access for recreation
                     and education and inspire appreciation and stewardship for aquatic
                     resources and habitat.

          7.4.5      Urban walkability: Promote safe pedestrian and bicycle routes during
                     development review to encourage connectivity between parks, trails,
                     schools and businesses.

GOAL:
Provide recreational opportunities for the entire community.

7.5       Policies

          7.5.1      Offer parks, trails and sports ﬁelds and support services to accommodate
                     the needs of various existing users and future users with population growth
                     and demographic changes. [RES]



P ARKS , R ECREATION & O PEN S PACE E LEMENT                                                 298
                                    CLARK2045
          7.5.2      Explore new recreational trends and engage in partnerships with user
                     groups to develop, operate and maintain specialized facilities.

          7.5.3      Prioritize facility development based on demonstrated demand, population
                     served, regional appeal, ﬁscal opportunity and revenue generating
                     potential.

          7.5.4      Expand sports ﬁelds by acquiring additional sites and providing all-season
                     designs.

GOAL:
Be responsible, eﬀective stewards of public lands and ﬁnances.

7.6       Policies

          7.6.1      Prioritize implementation to leverage the highest values beneﬁts (“most
                     bang for the buck”) such as short gaps between built trails to create longer
                     more usable connections.

          7.6.2      Incorporate sustainability and low impact development into design,
                     development and maintenance of the county park system and be a leader in
                     sustainable building practices.

          7.6.3      Use innovative and cost-effective methods to build, maintain, operate and
                     promote the parks, recreation and open space system.

          7.6.4      Cooperate with other county departments and neighboring jurisdictions to
                     identify and conserve open space.

          7.6.5      Integrate user counts and surveys into regular operational practices to
                     improve customer service and provide useful data for securing grants.

          7.6.6      Administer the volunteer camp host program to increase parks’ presence
                     and hospitality at community and regional parks.

          7.6.7      Investigate feasibility of incorporating security patrols or park ranger
                     program to ensure safety of park and trail users and protect facility
                     infrastructure.

          7.6.8      Continually seek new opportunities to increase revenues and control
                     expenses.

GOAL:
Preserve our historic and cultural heritage.

299                                             P ARKS , R ECREATION & O PEN S PACE E LEMENT
                                    CLARK2045
7.7       Policies

          7.7.1      Protect and improve historic and cultural features through design
                     approaches for existing and newly acquired park and trail sites.

          7.7.2      Partner with historical organizations to enlist volunteer-based
                     interpretation programs in parks and along trails.

          7.7.3      Develop an ongoing program to preserve, restore and interpret historic and
                     cultural resources.

          7.7.4      Collaborate with area historic preservation agencies.

GOAL:
Maintain and enhance parks and recreation facilities.

7.8       Policies

          7.8.1      Use best practices and invest in preventative maintenance.

          7.8.2      Coordinate with trail groups to develop and maintain trail projects.

          7.8.3      Promote volunteerism to enhance community ownership and stewardship
                     of parks, trails and natural areas.

          7.8.4      Seek higher levels of general fund support for operations and maintenance
                     of regional parks.

          7.8.5      Advocate for allocations of ﬁscal resources, such as REET, to be designated
                     to parks for capital projects.

          7.8.6      Collaborate with Transportation’s sidewalk program to implement safer
                     routes to parks and better access.

GOAL:
Serve the community and develop a dynamic, eﬀective organization.

7.9       Policies

          7.9.1      Develop capital facilities plans to ensure adequate improvement and
                     expansion of parks, trails, special facilities and natural areas to serve
                     existing and future populations.




P ARKS , R ECREATION & O PEN S PACE E LEMENT                                                     300
                                      CLARK2045
           7.9.2       Involve Clark County residents in planning and programming for the parks
                       system and provide effective community outreach to increase public
                       awareness and support.

           7.9.3       Support staff training and development to promote the use of best
                       practices and new technologies.

           7.9.4       Encourage Parks Advisory Board enrichment for ﬁne-tuning the members’
                       leadership and advocacy efforts.

           7.9.5       Advocate for additional staff resources to enable efforts on collaborating,
                       planning and revenue generation.

GOAL:
Seek adequate funding to meet community needs.

7.10       Policies

           7.10.1      Develop and maintain funding for acquisition, development, operation and
                       maintenance of parks, recreation facilities and trails.

           7.10.2      Actively seek innovative funding methods and use alternate methods,
                       where feasible, to enhance efﬁcient and effective operations.

           7.10.3      Consider stabilizing the Greater Clark Parks District’s ﬁnances by
                       protecting the maximum levy rate of 25 cents per $1,000 of assessed value.

           7.10.4      Aggressively pursue state, federal and private grant resources to leverage
                       local funding sources.

FUNDING STRATEGIES
This section lists the types of funding strategies for parks projects. Summary descriptions of these
strategies are included in the PROS.

Local Funding Opti ons
   •   General Obligation Bond
   •   Excess Levy
   •   Sales Tax
   •   Impact Fees
   •   Real Estate Excise Tax
   •   Real Estate Excise Tax-Local Conservation Areas (Clark County)
   •   Conservation Futures Tax (Clark County)



301                                               P ARKS , R ECREATION & O PEN S PACE E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
Federal & Sta te Grants and Conserva tion Programs
  •    Rivers, Trails and Conservation Assistance Program (National Parks Service)
  •    North American Wetlands Conservation Acts Grants Program (US Fish & Wildlife Service)
  •    Wetlands Reserve Program (National Resources Conservation Service)

Washington State Recreation an d Conservation Office Grant Programs
  •    Aquatic Lands Enhancement Account
  •    Washington Wildlife and Recreation Program
  •    Land and Water Conservation Fund
  •    National Recreational Trails Program
  •    Youth Athletic Facilities Program
  •    Salmon Recovery Funding Board

Transporta tion Enhancements
   •   U.S. Department of Transportation

Othe r Me thods & Funding Sources
   •   Metropolitan Park District
   •   Park and Recreation District
   •   Business Sponsorships/Donations
   •   Interagency Agreements
   •   Private Grants, Donations, & Gifts

Several other strategies should be considered for implementation in addition to the projects and
funding sources shown in the Capital Facilities Plan.

Capital Facilities Plan
The Parks Department conducted a public process to identify the overall park, recreation and
open space priorities and to identify implementation strategies to accomplish the priority projects
over the next six years. Criteria were developed and used to rank the projects by and between
park categories.

Potential funding sources were identiﬁed from the list of implementation strategies and matched
with the priority park projects. The Capital Facilities Plan and Six-year Priorities Projects can be
found in Appendix A of the PROS.

Alternative Fu ndin g Sources
As the county evaluates and implements the Capital Facilities Plan, it should give consideration to
additional funding sources. The following potential additional local assessments could provide
funding should there be funding shortfalls.


P ARKS , R ECREATION & O PEN S PACE E LEMENT                                                    302
                                       CLARK2045
Real Esta te Excise Tax: Local Conserv ation Area
With voter approval, the Board of County Commissioners may impose an excise tax on each sale of
real property in the county at a rate not to exceed one percent of the selling price for the purpose
of acquiring and maintaining conservation areas. The authorizing legislation (RCW 82.46) deﬁnes
conservation areas as "land and water that has environmental, agricultural, aesthetic, cultural,
scientiﬁc, historic, scenic, or low-intensity recreational value for existing and future generations."
These areas include "open spaces, wetlands, marshes, aquifer recharge areas, shoreline areas,
natural areas and other lands and waters that are important to preserve ﬂora and fauna."

Sales Tax: 0. 2% Additional Assessment
Within existing state statute, the county could collect an additional two-tenths of one percent
sales tax. In this case, the statute provides an electoral process for repealing the tax or altering the
rate. This tax is now in effect in Clark County at the rate of three-tenths of one percent. Of the
three-tenths being collected, two-tenths have been assigned to law enforcement services. In
addition, revenues derived from the three-tenths sales tax collected in the City of Vancouver are
directed to the county in exchange for certain services; by not collecting the tax the city is also
entitled to certain other state-distributed revenues.

Special Levy
Washington law allows counties, along with other speciﬁed junior taxing districts, to levy
additional property taxes in excess of limitations imposed by statute when authorized by the
voters. Levy approval requires 60 percent majority vote at a general or special election.

Cooperative Partnerships
In addition to direct funding of programs, the goals of the Parks, Recreation and Open Space Plans
can be reached through cooperative partnerships with other agencies and citizen groups. This
section describes several cooperative partnerships that should be pursued by the county.

Sta te an d Federal Land Tra des
The state and federal governments own nearly 69,000 acres of land in Clark County, with the state
Department of Natural Resource (DNR) owning 60,000 acres by itself. To better manage their
lands, DNR has sought (and will likely continue to seek) to consolidate their land holdings through
land trades or sales. The county should seek to work with DNR and other state and federal
agencies to identify cooperative opportunities to meet county park, recreation and open space
goals.

Storm an d Surface Water Uti lities
As provided by state law, Clark County could implement a Storm and Surface Water Utility to
better manage water resources. The activities of such a utility could involve protection and
restoration of wetlands, ponds or other water-related areas that provide important open space
and trail corridors. The county should continue to investigate the feasibility of such a utility that


303                                                P ARKS , R ECREATION & O PEN S PACE E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
would support the Parks, Recreation and Open Space Plans and the goals of the county's Water
Quality Division.

Park and Recrea tion Districts a nd Service Areas
Where there is sufﬁcient citizen interest, the county should explore the use of citizen managed
Parks and Recreation Districts to meet their urban park needs. These districts, independently
operated, could cooperatively help meet the need for urban parks, having the ability to acquire,
operate and maintain parks.

Volun teer Programs
The Greater Clark Parks a Department should continue and build on its existing volunteer
programs to provide citizen partnerships that improve the quality of county park facilities while
reducing the county's ﬁnancial burden. Adopt-A-Trail and Adopt-A-Greenway programs are
examples of volunteer programs that have been successfully implemented elsewhere.




P ARKS , R ECREATION & O PEN S PACE E LEMENT                                                   304
      CLARK2045




305       P ARKS , R ECREATION & O PEN S PACE E LEMENT
CHAPTER
HISTORIC, ARCHAEOLOGICAL &
CULTURAL PRESERVATION ELEMENT
                                8
                                     CLARK2045

CHAPTER 8
Historic, Archaeological & Cultural
Preservation Element

INTRODUCTION
Cultural resources in Clark County are rooted in a rich and colorful history that dates back
thousands of years. The historical record of the county includes the formation of the region's
unique physiography, settlement of the region by Native American groups, exploration by
European nations, location as headquarters for the Hudson's Bay Company Columbia District
trade networks, destination for thousands who took the Oregon Trail and location as an industrial
center (ﬁrst for pulp and paper, then aluminum and shipbuilding and now high-tech industries).

The Growth Management Act of 1990 (GMA) requires all local jurisdictions to "Identify and
encourage the preservation of lands, sites and structures that have historical or archaeological
signiﬁcance." Knowledge and appreciation of Clark County's history provides a context in which to
understand current growth and development trends and fosters a sense of continuity and
community so valuable to county residents.

This element of the 20-Year Plan includes:

   •   a summary of existing information about settlement patterns, key events and historic and
       archaeological resources which remain in Clark County;
   •   existing agencies, groups and programs that are involved in historic, archaeological and
       cultural preservation and identiﬁcation issues; and,
   •   goals and policies related to historic, archaeological and historic preservation in Clark
       County.

BACKGROUND & EXISTING CONDITIONS

HISTORY
The beautiful location and rich natural resources of Clark County have inﬂuenced its development
history and settlement pattern. The history of the county is important because of the impacts
historical settlement patterns have on current and proposed land use policies. From Native
American settlements, to scattered European farms, to small farming communities, to mill towns,
to regional employment centers, the development pattern of Clark County has mirrored that of
the United States as a whole.




307                      H ISTORIC , A RCHAEOLOGICAL & C ULTURAL P RESERVATION E LEMENT
                                        CLARK2045
H I S T O R I C & C U L T U R AL R E S O U R C ES
Historic buildings and properties and other cultural resources are the cornerstone of Clark
County heritage and culture. They are the legacy of the people who shaped the land and the
history of the region. Although Clark County is rich in properties of the past, the future of historic
preservation is up to us. Historic Preservation programs rely on citizen involvement to protect and
restore historic sites in our community.

Table 8-1 Registered historic sites
     Number of Clark County           Number
  Registered Historic Sites - 2025    of Sites
 Clark County Heritage Register         87
 National Register of Historic          44
 Places
 Washington Heritage Register           50
 Washington Heritage Barn               37
 Register



E X I S T I N G P R O G R A M S & P OL I C I E S T O R E C O G N I Z E AN D P R O T E C T
H I S T O R I C , A R C H A E O L O G I C A L AN D C U L T U R AL R E SO U R C E S
There are a number of organizations and public agencies in Clark County which are interested in
documenting and preserving Clark County's historic, archaeological and cultural resources.
National and state legislation and programs help to frame the programs here in Clark County.

National Programs: The National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 authorized the creation of the
National Register of Historic Places as a means of recognizing and honoring buildings, sites,
structures, objects and districts that are important to our past. The National Register is
maintained by the National Park Service. Listing of properties in the National Register is an
honorary recognition but they receive some protection from federal agency actions as a result of
the environmental review process known as “Section 106.” Placement on the register is strictly
voluntary for the landowner and therefore does not provide any local regulatory protection.


T H E S T A T E H I S T O R I C P R E S E R V A T I O N O F F I C ER (SHPO) & D E P T .
O F A R C H E O L O G Y & H I S T O R IC P R ES E R V A T I O N (DAHP)

The SHPO was established as a result of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 and is
appointed by the Governor. The SHPO administers federal and state historic preservation laws
and programs and directs DAHP. DAHP maintains records of cultural and historic resources in the
Inventory of Cultural Resources and administers the National Register of Historic Places, the
Washington Heritage Register and the Washington Heritage Barn Register designated programs.



H ISTORIC , A RCHAEOLOGICAL & C ULTURAL P RESERVATION E LEMENT                                   308
                                       CLARK2045
The SHPO and DAHP staff are responsible for reviewing federal, state and local agency projects
that may affect cultural and historic resources including archaeological surveys and inventories.


T H E C L AR K C O U N T Y H I S T O R IC P R E S E R V A T I O N P R O G R A M & T H E
C L A R K C O U N T Y H I S T O R I C P R E S ER V A T I O N C O M M IS S I O N
The Clark County Historic Preservation program is a mandated ongoing program. Clark County
and the City of Vancouver are both Certiﬁed Local Governments, responsible for maintaining a
historic preservation commission, surveying local historic properties, enforcing state or local
preservation laws, reviewing National Register Nominations and providing for public
participation.

The Clark County Historic Preservation Commission (HPC) is a joint Clark County and City of
Vancouver commission that was established in 1981. The HPC raises community awareness of the
county’s historic and cultural resources and serves as the county’s primary resource on historic
preservation. The HPC initiates and maintains the Clark County Heritage Register, which is
intended to encourage the preservation, restoration, and rehabilitation of eligible historic, and/or
cultural resources within the county for future generations, and reviews proposed design changes
to properties listed in the register. The City of Vancouver has jurisdiction for historic reviews
within Vancouver city limits. The county has agreements with the other municipalities to act as the
local review body for properties listed on the Clark County Heritage Register within those areas.


C L I M A T E C H AN G E
In 2023, the state legislature added a climate change and resiliency goal to the GMA. Chapter 14 –
Climate Element includes information on the topic and includes most climate policies in the
comprehensive plan. Some of these policies relate to historic and cultural resources.

GOALS & POLICIES
The Washington Growth Management Act of 1990 identiﬁed the following state goal for historic
preservation:

       Identify and encourage the preservation of lands, sites, and structures that have historical or
       archaeological signiﬁcance.

The goals and policies in this plan reﬂect that overall state direction. The Community Framework
Plan contains ﬁve policies to ensure that the county and its cities develop a coordinated approach
to the identiﬁcation and preservation of historic, archaeological and cultural resources. The goals
in this element are intended to further clarify and direct staff efforts toward implementation of
the overall state goal for historic preservation and the policies of the Community Framework Plan.




309                       H ISTORIC , A RCHAEOLOGICAL & C ULTURAL P RESERVATION E LEMENT
                                    CLARK2045
8.0       C O U N T Y W I D E P L A N N IN G P OL I C Y

GOAL:
The county, cities, special districts will work with tribes, and state and federal agencies
to identify and protect tribal, federal, state, and local historic, archaeological and
cultural lands, sites and structures, of signiﬁcance within Clark County.

          8.0.1      Participate in the identiﬁcation of archaeological and historic sites in Clark
                     County to guide decision-making in resource planning, environmental
                     review and resource management to protect historic sites for future
                     generations– while afﬁrming and acting in accord with tribal, state, and
                     federal law declaring records, maps and other information relating to places
                     such as tribal and other archaeological sites, historic archaeological
                     resources, or traditional cultural places, are exempt from public disclosure.


C O U N T Y 20-Y E AR P L A N N I N G P O L I C I E S
8.1       Policies

          8.1.1      Coordinate with DAHP to identify and evaluate archaeological and historic
                     sites to determine which should be preserved. Identiﬁcation and evaluation
                     is a constant, ongoing process.

          8.1.2      Identify those lands which are most likely to contain unrecorded
                     archeological or historic sites.

          8.1.3      Facilitate nomination of historic, archaeological, and cultural resources to
                     the local, state and national Historic Registers. The Cultural Resources
                     Inventory should be used as a reference in the identiﬁcation of signiﬁcant
                     structures and places eligible for nomination.

          8.1.4      Maintain the Clark County Heritage Register to provide a means to
                     recognize and preserve cultural resources of local signiﬁcance. The Cultural
                     Resources Inventory should be used as a reference in the identiﬁcation of
                     signiﬁcant structures and places eligible for nomination.

          8.1.5      Review of land use actions should be sensitive and give consideration to
                     protection of cultural resources while ensuring compliance with the county
                     and City of Vancouver historic preservation ordinances.

          8.1.6      Promote preservation, restoration, rehabilitation and reuse of historically
                     or architecturally signiﬁcant older buildings.




H ISTORIC , A RCHAEOLOGICAL & C ULTURAL P RESERVATION E LEMENT                                310
                                    CLARK2045
GOAL:
Increase recognition of historic, archaeological and cultural resources.

8.2       Policies

          8.2.1      Provide education to county employees about cultural heritage
                     preservation issues, including state and federal penalties for disturbance,
                     destruction or removal of archaeological resources.

          8.2.2      Provide a program of public education concerning the need to preserve
                     cultural resources and keep the public informed of actions to carry out
                     preservation plans.

          8.2.3      Promote a wide variety of community involvement in preservation issues
                     by linking the public with preservation groups and resources.

          8.2.4      Establish and maintain government-to-government relations with Native
                     American tribes for the preservation of archaeological sites and traditional
                     cultural properties.

          8.2.5      Clark County shall pursue its cultural resource goals through collaboration
                     with residents, property owners, cultural organizations, public agencies,
                     tribes, school districts, libraries and others.

GOAL:
Provide stewardship of county-owned cultural resources.

8.3       Policies

          8.3.1      Maintain county-owned cultural resources in an appropriate manner by
                     following the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation, in
                     consultation with the Clark County Historic Preservation Commission.

          8.3.2      Identify, on an ongoing basis, county-owned properties that may be
                     historically signiﬁcant. Listing in the Clark County Heritage Register should
                     be considered for county properties when appropriate.

GOAL:
Devise and implement strategies and incentives that encourage historic preservation.

8.4       Policies

          8.4.1      Continue to utilize the Clark County Historic Preservation Commission as
                     the authority and advisor to the County Planning Commission, the Board of



311                    H ISTORIC , A RCHAEOLOGICAL & C ULTURAL P RESERVATION E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
                      County Councilors and other county agencies in matters of historic
                      preservation.

          8.4.2       Support expansion of the variety of incentives available to property owners
                      to encourage historic preservation. Although many cultural resources are in
                      private ownership, public agencies can offer incentives for their
                      preservation and maintenance.

          8.4.3       Develop methods to link cultural resource preservation with local
                      economic development strategies, such as rehabilitation of commercial
                      buildings, neighborhood revitalization and tourism.

IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGIES
   •   Support the waiver or reduction of permit and impact fees for re-use or rehabilitation
       projects that are consistent with surrounding land uses.
   •   Increase public awareness of cultural resources through educational and interpretive
       projects that highlight sites included on the county inventory or those eligible for inclusion
       in local and/or state heritage registers, or National Registers of Historic Places.
   •   Review the county’s and its cities’ policies for consistency regarding preservation of
       cultural and historic resources.
   •   Provide assistance to developers, landowners and the construction trade regarding
       appropriate re-use and rehabilitation of identiﬁed historic sites and buildings.
   •   Provide assistance to developers, landowners and others interested in obtaining grants
       and receiving available tax incentives for re-use and rehabilitation of identiﬁed historic
       sites and buildings, including administration of the county’s Historical Promotion Grant
       program.




H ISTORIC , A RCHAEOLOGICAL & C ULTURAL P RESERVATION E LEMENT                                  312
                CLARK2045




313   H ISTORIC , A RCHAEOLOGICAL & C ULTURAL P RESERVATION E LEMENT
CHAPTER
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ELEMENT
                               9
                                        CLARK2045

CHAPTER 9
Economic Development Element

INTRODUCTION
The Economic Development Element provides opportunities for Clark County residents to work in
the county. Clark County is a resilient, vibrant, and inclusive place to live with a high quality of life
where all residents can thrive. The Economic Development Element focuses on job creation. The
Economic Development Element encourages economic and environmental resilience to climate
change and living wage jobs in a community where people want to live, work, and recreate.

The GMA established the following statewide economic development goal: “Encourage economic
development throughout the state that is consistent with adopted comprehensive plans; promote
economic opportunity for all residents of the state, especially for unemployed and disadvantaged
persons; and encourage growth in areas experiencing insufﬁcient economic growth all within the
capacities of the state's natural resources and local public services and facilities.”


D E F I N I N G EC O N O M I C D E V E L O P ME N T
Economic development is fundamentally an issue of human development. Economic systems are
comprised of transactional relations between elements in society, such as agents (individuals and
enterprises) and institutions (governmental and non-governmental). The basis of such
transactional relations are rooted in meeting basic human needs, concerns, utility derivation and
attainment of ideated states of well-being, variably deﬁned. Measuring economic performance
relative to these objectives generally defaults to metrics of materiality, such as income. With
respect to complete human well-being however, materiality is a necessary but not a sufﬁcient
condition.

Measures of personal income are frequently used as metrics of economic performance. Full-time
employment at or above median wage levels (with associated health, welfare and pension beneﬁts)
is a strong predictor of various measures of human well-being. While measures of income serve as
proxy for human well-being, they are inherently limited and their conclusions not broadly
generalizable. A set of diverse metrics offers a fuller perspective of human well-being and relative
comparability among societies. Such metrics include among other things: income; life expectancy;
access to sanitation, clean drinking water and health services; infant mortality; access to
education, educational attainment and rates of literacy. Statistical measures of equity in each of
these and other areas of topical interest are also available by ethnicity and gender and are
important aspects of measuring human well-being.




315                                                            E CONOMIC D EVELOPMENT E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
THE COUNTY’S ROLE
Clark County’s role in economic development is to function as an equitable and efﬁcient
institutional partner and facilitator, assuring due process in its regulatory role and working with
partners in the region in the public and private sectors to promote a robust market environment
where economic development may occur. Directly, the county is involved in the provision of public
infrastructure, its planning and ﬁnance. The county also engages in land use planning, ensuring
that context of land use and the capacity of connecting infrastructure are sufﬁcient. Through
extensive consultations with jurisdictional partners and the public, the county develops a strong
nexus between land and public capital investment necessary for the formation of private capital
investment.

The county has signiﬁcant indirect effects on economic development. This is primarily through
partnerships such as with the Columbia River Economic Development Council (CREDC),
Southwest Washington Workforce Development Council (SWWDC), Vancouver USA Regional
Tourism Ofﬁce, chambers of commerce, ports and other jurisdictional relationships. As an
example, Clark County was a participant in the 2011 CREDC Clark County Employment Land
Inventory, which identiﬁed a shortage of development-ready large employment sites. This
shortage relates primarily to site-speciﬁc constraints such as insufﬁcient infrastructure capacity
and the presence of environmentally-sensitive areas. Through cultivation of these relationships
and extensive ongoing public engagement, the county will develop and maintain an economic
development vision and pursue it with strategy, discipline and intentionality.

OBJECTIVES
1. Economic diversiﬁcation
   a. Develop a robust market environment comprised of diverse sectors
   b. Build resilience to business cycle shocks
   c. Invest in broad-based public infrastructure which serves a variety of economic sectors -
      avoid institutional selection of “winners and losers” or “calling the market”

2. Human well-being and opportunity
   a. Generate pathways for the creation of middle-skill, middle-income, traded-sector
      employment
   b. Attract export and manufacturing related business investment
   c. Facilitate partnerships generating opportunities for citizens to increase skill levels

   d. Recognize and respect individual needs for diverse opportunities
   e. Look for the “path to yes” in interaction between citizens, partners and the economic
      community

3. Holistic, strategic approach
   a. Develop an economic vision rooted in evidence
   b. Develop a vision that transcends planning cycles and biennial budgets



E CONOMIC D EVELOPMENT E LEMENT                                                                 316
                                        CLARK2045
   c. Erase boundaries between communities and topical disciplines
   d. Wisely use resources through focused strategies – geographically prioritize and focus
      public infrastructure investment to leverage timing and yield of development such as the
      Focused Public Investment Areas approach (examples: St. Johns/Barberton and Discovery
      Corridor)

COMPARATIVE ADVANTAGES
Clark County and the cities within it beneﬁt from several strengths and comparative advantages.
While each may have associated limitations or constraints, the overall strength is one that can be
used to promote economic development and activity.

Table 9.3 Clark County Comparative Advantages
 LOCATION                  COMMUNITY               LABOR                    INFRASTRUCTURE
 Part of Portland          Good quality of life    Labor force              Good road
 metropolitan area                                 educationally            infrastructure
                                                   competent at high        maintenance and
                                                   school level and above   network
 Within 3 hours drive      High recreation         Strong primary and       Two transcontinental
 time of Seattle\Tacoma    amenities               secondary schools        railways
 10 hours by ground to     High environmental      Strong university        International airport
 San Francisco, largest    quality
 air freight hub on west
 coast
 Temperate climate         Rural and urban         Strong community         Deep water marine
 resulting in minimal      community character     college                  terminals
 weather hazards,
 predictable energy
 costs and predictable
 equipment maintenance
 requirements
                                                   Reasonable labor costs   Pipeline oil and gas
                                                                            access
                                                                            Adequate ground and
                                                                            surface water
                                                                            Affordable electricity
                                                                            and adequate networks
                                                                            Building materials are
                                                                            competitively priced
                                                                            and available




317                                                         E CONOMIC D EVELOPMENT E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
GUIDING PRINCIPLES

USE ROBUST STRATEGIES
Robust economic development strategies are those with many positive direct and indirect effects.
For example, a strategy of expanding middle income manufacturing jobs in traded sectors
generates direct positive income effects. These income effects manifest in the form of a multiplier,
generating additional consumer spending related to the increase in disposable income, which has
an associated employment generation effect. An additional indirect beneﬁt is the creation of
additional pathways to middle skill, middle income employment, beneﬁtting persons working in
lower income, lower skill employment. Traded sectors export goods and services from Clark
County to markets throughout the world, generating prosperity and opportunity locally. Some
examples of robust economic development strategies include:

•   Focusing on traded sectors, attracting new investment and creating opportunities to export
    products and services across the globe
    o Leverage comparative infrastructure advantage to attract traded sector industries
    o Develop the land base necessary for retention, expansion and recruitment of these
        industries
    o Build our knowledge base in engineering, supply chain and industrial management
•   Focus on increasing the property tax base instead of expanding the sales tax base
    o Recognize sales tax as revenue that redistributes across the community based on shifting
        consumer preference
    o Sales tax is new revenue only when population or income levels grow signiﬁcantly, or when
        new retail segments develop
    o Property tax reﬂects increasing capital stock
•   As identiﬁed in the 2011 CREDC Clark County Employment Land Inventory, focus on
    industrial land inventory that meets the needs for retention, expansion and recruitment of
    twenty-ﬁrst century industry
    o Support smart urban growth boundary expansion that brings in sites of the character, type,
        size and location desired by industries
    o Protect the most desirable parcels zoned for industrial use from conversion to other use
    o Retire parcels that are less desirable for industrial use because of size, location, or
        constrained shape or character, from the industrial inventory to other kinds of land uses

These strategies are intended to be reﬁned and added to over time as additional information
becomes available through research activities and stakeholder engagement.


FOCUS ON CORE COMPETENCIES
Clark County’s direct role in economic development is to provide public infrastructure and land
use planning and permitting. These activities include transportation and storm water planning and



E CONOMIC D EVELOPMENT E LEMENT                                                                 318
                                      CLARK2045
projects, which can signiﬁcantly affect opportunities for economic growth and development. The
County also manages and plans for investments in its short line railroad, which can generate
opportunities for additional rail-served industrial land.

Clark County government should focus on initiatives and efforts in these core areas that further
develop excellence in providing these services to the community. The county should also continue
to develop excellence in its engagement as a partner with other jurisdictions and economic
development stakeholders in areas such as business recruitment, expansion and retention,
workforce training and education, marketing and tourism, land aggregation and development and
so forth. Comprehensive Plan policies should support the efforts of all parties. Comprehensive
Plan policies in this chapter focus on and provide guidance to the county related to the land use
planning competency area and associated decision making.


M A I N T A IN A S MA L L , S T R O N G & S I M P L E EC O N O M IC D E V E L O P M E N T
PROGRAM

In consideration of limited resources, it is important to keep programs focused and effective.
Important characteristics of the program include:

•   Measure and implement ideas that build on our natural capital and “what works here”; use
    other communities as inspiration and leverage and adapt their ideas;
•   Use measurements of success that are fair, look at situations over time, focus on improvement
    in opportunities for workers and focus on how efﬁciently resources are used; and
•   Prepare sites with infrastructure and predictable permitting processes that encourage private
    investment.


I N C O R P O R A T E C L I M A T E C H A N G E IN T O E C O N O M IC D E V E L O P M E N T
STRATEGIES

In 2023, the state legislature added a climate change and resiliency goal to the GMA. Chapter 14 –
Climate Element includes information on the topic and includes most climate policies in the
comprehensive plan. Some of these policies relate to economic development in support of green
jobs, resilience to climate impacts, and support for reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and
environmental justice. The goals and policies in the Economic Development Element should be
implemented consistently with the climate change and resiliency goal and Climate Element goals
and policies.

GOALS & POLICIES
The Community Framework Plan contained a series of policies for economic development. The
intent of this Economic Development Element is to build on the policies already in place, provide
more speciﬁc direction for implementation of economic development goals and coordinate with
other elements of the comprehensive plan.


319                                                         E CONOMIC D EVELOPMENT E LEMENT
                                        CLARK2045
9.0 C O U N T Y E C O N OM I C D E V E L OP M EN T V I S I O N S T AT E M E N T
“Clark County will grow as a high-wage economy that creates jobs at a rate in excess of population growth
and an increasing percentage of the population will both live and work in Clark County. There will be an
emphasis on emerging clusters that have a signiﬁcant knowledge-based component.”


9.1         C O U N T Y W I D E P L A N N IN G P OL I C I ES
The following policies are countywide and apply to both incorporated and unincorporated areas.

            9.1.1       The county and cities will demonstrate their commitment to long-term
                        economic growth by promoting a diverse economic base, providing
                        opportunity for all residents, including unemployed and disadvantaged
                        persons. Growth which helps to measurably raise the average annual wage
                        rate of community residents and preserves the environmental quality and
                        livability of our community, is viable growth and will improve the lifestyle of
                        Clark County residents.

            9.1.2       The county and cities will demonstrate their commitment to the retention
                        of those enterprises, which have created the economic base of the county
                        and promote their continued growth in a predictable environment, which
                        encourages investment and job growth.

            9.1.3       The county and cities will encourage long-term growth of businesses of all
                        sizes, because economic diversiﬁcation and stratiﬁcation are important
                        factors in overall job growth for the county and cities.

            9.1.4       The county and cities will promote productivity and quality among its
                        businesses to meet world and market standards for their products and
                        services.

            9.1.5       The county and cities will encourage higher educational levels for residents
                        and improvements in the measurable performance of high school graduates
                        compared with other counties in the state.

            9.1.6       The county and cities may give priority assistance to employers who will
                        increase the standard of living in the community.

            9.1.7       The county and cities will plan for long-term economic growth, which
                        enhances the capacity of existing air shed for job-generating activities.

            9.1.8       The county and cities will provide for orderly long-term commercial and
                        industrial growth and an adequate supply of land suitable for compatible
                        commercial and industrial development.



E CONOMIC D EVELOPMENT E LEMENT                                                                     320
                                      CLARK2045
           9.1.9       The county and cities will encourage the recruitment of new business
                       employers to absorb the increasing labor force and to supply long-term
                       employment opportunities for county's residents who are currently
                       employed outside of the State.

           9.1.10      The county and cities will work together to establish speciﬁc common
                       benchmarks that will measure the region's overall economic viability. These
                       benchmarks will be included in the county's Comprehensive Plan and are
                       encouraged to be included in each jurisdictions comprehensive plan.

           9.1.11      Conversion of industrial or employment lands to non-industrial or non-
                       employment districts may occur within the following parameters:
                    a. Protect and preserve lands zoned heavy industrial for heavy industrial uses.
                    b. Protect employment lands from conversion to residential.
                    c. Consider rezoning of employment lands to non-retail commercial or
                       business park if the proponent can show that (a) the zone change would
                       accommodate unforeseen and rapidly changing commercial development
                       needs and (b) the proposed designation is more suitable than the current
                       designation given the land’s site-speciﬁc characteristics and (c) the
                       proposed zone change will generate greater economic beneﬁt than the
                       current comprehensive plan zone allocation.

           9.1.12      Encoyurage use of a multi-modal transportation system that facilitates the
                       reduction of travel times and reduces the need for additional road
                       construction within the region.

           9.1.13      Following consultation with interested cities, the county may, consistent
                       with state requirements, designate Major industrial developments RCW
                       36.70A.365. Appropriate or required Intergovernmental Agreements
                       consistent with the provisions of the state law shall accompany such
                       designation.


C O U N T Y 20-Y E AR P L A N N I N G P O L I C I E S

UNINCORPORATED COUNTY
The following goals and policies are not countywide and apply only to the unincorporated areas.

GOAL:
Provide commercial and industrial employment opportunities to meet the needs of
Clark County citizens.




321                                                         E CONOMIC D EVELOPMENT E LEMENT
                                    CLARK2045
9.2       Policies

          9.2.1      Encourage long-term business investments that generate net ﬁscal beneﬁts
                     to the region, protect environmental quality and are consistent with the
                     objective of higher wage jobs for Clark County residents.

          9.2.2      Encourage public and not-for-proﬁt partnerships with private business
                     interests in generating economic development projects.

          9.2.3      Promote a diverse economic base, providing economic opportunity for all
                     residents.

          9.2.4      Provide priority assistance to employers who pay a family wage.

          9.2.5      Promote workforce development through collaboration with WSU-
                     Vancouver, Clark College and other organizations to facilitate
                     infrastructure development and other economic development initiatives.

GOAL:
Assure an adequate supply of industrial sites to meet market demands for industrial
development over the planning horizon to create an environment conducive to the
startup, growth and expansion of industries.

9.3       Policies

          9.3.1      In cooperation with local jurisdictions, maintain a minimum 10-year supply
                     of industrial land based on average absorption rates over the last ﬁve years.
                     a. Designate the necessary acreage of vacant industrial land for the 20-
                          year planning period.
                     b. Discourage removal of land from the inventory if that results in a less
                          than 10-year supply of industrial sites.
                     c. New industrial sites that are part of a major industrial land bank shall be
                          consistent with RCW36.70A.365.

          9.3.2      Designate sites for industrial use at locations that will be accessible from
                     roadways of arterial classiﬁcation or higher, potentially served with utilities
                     and a developable area with minimal environmental constraints such as
                     unsuitable soils, ﬂoodplains, archaeological sites and wetlands.
                     a. Program Focused Public Investment Areas and Capital Facilities
                        Planning expenditures to assure development of these lands.

          9.3.3      Maintain an adequate inventory of properties designated for industrial use
                     and that are suitable for a mix of business and industrial park, light and
                     heavy industrial uses; include properties developed by both private and



E CONOMIC D EVELOPMENT E LEMENT                                                                322
                                  CLARK2045
                    public entities; and provide access to multimodal transportation services
                    including motor freight, rail and marine facilities.

GOAL:
Provide contextually-appropriate commercial sites adequate to meet a diversity of
needs for retail, service and institutional development in Clark County.

9.4      Policies

         9.4.1      In cooperation with local jurisdictions, maintain an adequate supply of
                    commercial lands within designated urban growth areas, based on average
                    absorption rates of the last ﬁve years plus an appropriate market factor.

                    •   Designate sufﬁcient commercial land for the 20-year planning period,
                        located within designated urban growth areas;
                    •   Discourage removal of commercial land from the inventory that results
                        in a less than 10-year supply of commercial sites;
                    •   Update inventories of commercial lands at least every ten years; and,
                    •   Encourage inﬁll and redevelopment of underutilized commercial sites.

         9.4.2      Locate convenience-oriented retail and service developments adjacent to
                    residential neighborhoods; encourage small-scale neighborhood
                    commercial uses directly within residential areas.

         9.4.3      Encourage commercial and mixed-use developments located on current or
                    planned transit corridors; encourage transit-oriented site planning and
                    design.

         9.4.4      Maintain design guidelines to ensure that commercial projects are
                    developed with minimal impact on surrounding land uses, are consistent
                    with related community appearance/design guidelines and assure
                    pedestrian as well as vehicular access.

         9.4.5      Permit home occupations that are consistent with the character of
                    adjoining residential properties and neighborhoods.

         9.4.6      Encourage responsible waterfront development for commercial uses where
                    environmentally and economically feasible.

GOAL:
Provide a continuum of educational opportunities responsive to the changing needs of
the work place locally and regionally.




323                                                     E CONOMIC D EVELOPMENT E LEMENT
                                  CLARK2045
9.5      Policies

         9.5.1      Encourage continuing education, skills upgrading, mentoring and lifelong
                    learning programs suitable for large and small employers.

GOAL:
Promote long-term economic development that will improve environmental quality and
accommodate job generating activities.

9.6      Policies

         9.6.1      Encourage sustainable development and programs.

         9.6.2      Develop compatible land uses that promote the long-term economic
                    viability of the county railroad.

GOAL:
Encourage infrastructure development and services necessary to serve new industrial
development.

9.7      Policies

         9.7.1      Prioritize infrastructure development in advance of need to areas that are
                    suitable for industrial development.

GOAL:
Maintain and enhance opportunities for resource-based industries located on rural
lands in Clark County.

9.8      Policies

         9.8.1      Encourage resource-based industries, including agricultural, forestry and
                    aggregate materials, which are consistent with rural lands goals and
                    policies.

         9.8.2      Implement programs to encourage agricultural and forestry management
                    of smaller rural tracts consistent with best available science.

         9.8.3      Encourage home businesses and, if necessary, revise the Clark County
                    Uniﬁed Development Code to minimize impacts to neighboring properties.




E CONOMIC D EVELOPMENT E LEMENT                                                            324
CHAPTER
SCHOOL ELEMENT
                 10
                                        CLARK2045

CHAPTER 10
School Element

“Our Schools, in partnership with our community, are resolved to provide quality education for all children
in Clark County regardless of income, ethnicity or ability.” Clark County School Districts

INTRODUCTION
Current land use plans and capital facilities funding mechanisms for schools present unique
challenges under the Growth Management Act (GMA). Schools are not required as a mandatory
concurrency item under the GMA, but are included along with other public services in Capital
Facilities Planning to ensure that existing populations are served in accordance with projected
growth. Clark County and its school districts have found that there is much synergy between land
use planning and quality schools and it is best for all stakeholders to be at the Table when the
growth management plan is updated. This chapter intends to assure full consideration of school
capital facilities and to encourage a sustainable learning community in the development and
implementation of city and county comprehensive plans.

School districts in Clark County are as diverse as the communities they serve. District boundary
lines do not correspond to city or urban growth boundaries but have logic all their own. Schools
are located in urban, suburban and rural areas. Districts vary in size from serving fewer than 1,000
students to over 22,000 students. For example, Green Mountain School District, the smallest
district in the county, is entirely rural. In contrast, Vancouver School District lies almost entirely
within the Vancouver urban growth area and is comprised of a mix of urban and suburban
development. Several districts contain land in more than one urban growth area and most districts
include all three environments.

The county’s school districts are facing the challenge of providing a quality education given the
rapid growth and development of Clark County. School capacity in some areas of the county has
not kept pace with enrollment growth. For the fastest growing school districts, the dilemma of
serving students in portables (or having “unhoused students”) is exacerbated by the continued
growth projections for our region. Capital facilities demands are increased by aging infrastructure,
the need for better instructional technology and facilities to support high quality teaching and
learning (such as computers, presentation equipment and science labs), the desire for equity
among facilities and the move toward smaller class sizes and special programs. School capacity,
siting and funding new facilities are discussed further under the School Capacity and Enrollment
Growth section.




S CHOOL E LEMENT                                                                                      326
                                      CLARK2045
School districts are experiencing increased enrollment of students from families that do not speak
English at home. Increased enrollment of students from immigrant families requires the
development of programs that are aimed at meeting the needs of these students and their families.
While Spanish continues to be the most commonly spoken language other than English, school
districts serve students who speak a diverse range of languages. School districts must plan facility
needs to accommodate programs for English language learners.

School districts’ enrollment demographics show the percentage of students living in poverty and
student mobility. The negative impacts of poverty and especially, student mobility on quality
education is well documented. Growth management and land use policy decisions, especially
around housing, will play an increasing role in strategies to create sustainable, vital communities
that help ensure that all children can succeed. The distribution of affordable housing, living wage
jobs, public transportation and other public services across the county are key to the stability and
quality of life of our residents.


S C H O O L C AP AC IT Y & E N R OL L M E N T G R O W T H
The community goal is to provide proper educational facilities for students at the time they enroll.
There are several factors involved in the timely provision of these facilities. School facility and
student capacity needs are dictated by the types and amounts of space required to accommodate
each district’s educational program. The educational program components, also known as
standards of service, which drive facility space needs, include grade conﬁguration, optimum
facility size, class size, educational program offerings, classroom utilization and scheduling
requirements and use of portable classrooms.

In addition to student population, other factors such as collective bargaining agreements,
government mandates, ability to pass voter-approved bonds and levies, adequacy of state funding
and community expectations also affect classroom space requirements. Traditional education
programs are often supplemented by programs such as special education, bilingual education, pre-
school, transition to kindergarten, full-day kindergarten and childcare, and art and music. These
programs can also have a signiﬁcant impact on the available student capacity of school facilities.


S C H O O L S I T IN G
A new or remodeled school is an asset to a neighborhood and is often viewed as a community
center. Siting a new school requires several considerations. Districts review the buildable lands
inventory to identify land use categories where schools are allowed in the areas where residential
growth is occurring. Schools typically require a full range of urban services, including public sewer,
water, ﬁre and police service. The number of acres needed for a school site varies by type of school
and age group. A typical elementary school is sited on approximately 10 acres, a middle school site
is about 20 acres and a high school site can take up to 50 acres. These large parcels can be hard to
ﬁnd, especially within an urban growth area. Districts must also compete with private developers



327                                                                               S CHOOL E LEMENT
                                       CLARK2045
for the land. Under the current growth conditions, land speculation drives the cost of land above
its appraised value, putting the districts at a distinct disadvantage in land negotiations. The cost of
land is also higher within the urban growth area and in areas that are predicted to be included in
the urban growth area. However, school districts must balance the potential capital cost savings of
purchasing land on the outskirts of the urban growth area with the operational beneﬁts of locating
schools proximate to existing residential areas (i.e., maximizing community support and
participation and minimizing student transportation costs).

School districts strive to avoid, if possible, the pattern of siting future schools on the outer ring of
the urban growth boundary, which may encourage additional residential growth and in turn
require additional services. It takes a concerted effort by school districts, local government and
the development community to provide affordable sites for schools in more central locations.
Innovative school siting can also include co-location with other public and private entities,
constructing multi-story school buildings with smaller building footprints, partnerships with other
public/private entities for education related services, the renovation of existing ofﬁce buildings
and shared park and open space.


S C H O O L F U N D IN G
Depending on district eligibility, districts pay for a portion of the costs of capital facilities with
funds provided by the State of Washington through the Common School Construction Fund. The
remaining capital expenses must be raised locally, through the passage of bond levies (which raise
the property taxes of all residential property owners within a particular district) and/or impact
fees (which apply to new residential construction within the district). School operating funds are
secured from state and federal education sources and from local operating levies. Voter approved
operating levies raise the property taxes of all residential, commercial and industrial property
owners in a district. In a district with a high industrial and commercial tax base, residents carry a
lower proportionate share of the educational operating costs.

There is currently a signiﬁcant gap between the total education infrastructure cost and the funds
available. While impact fees are a tool provided under GMA to deal with growth, legally, impact
fees can only pay for a proportionate share of the cost of new facilities and only those facilities
needed to respond to growth. Local bond measures require a 60% super-majority vote. Several
districts have a history of failed bond measures, due in part to the super-majority requirement, but
also to high residential tax rates for operating levies because of an imbalance between the mix of
residential, commercial and industrial lands. The Common School Construction Fund requires that
the district pass a local bond measure to match the state funds and the match does not cover all
development or site acquisition costs. State funding regulations result in new facilities being
constructed after growth has occurred and a need can be demonstrated, due to the concern of
overbuilding permanent facilities. The average lifespan of a school is ﬁfty years and growth may
signiﬁcantly increase and decline during that time. For these reasons, "portable" or "temporary"
classrooms have become common in fast growing districts.



S CHOOL E LEMENT                                                                                   328
                                       CLARK2045
SCHOOLS AS COMMUNITY CENTERS
In addition to their primary educational function, public schools serve as a community focal point
and provide facilities used for a variety of community civic and recreational needs. School day
education programs are also supplemented by extended day programs, community education,
recreation, early childhood programs and childcare. There is increasing community use of ball
ﬁelds and gymnasiums, meeting rooms, computer labs, performing arts facilities and media
centers. Many school sites also serve as neighborhood parks. New or refurbished schools can also
encourage neighborhood stability and revitalization.

In order to make the most efﬁcient use of schools and school sites, policies in this element
encourage co-location of schools with other community activities and facilities. Some examples of
organizations that could co-locate with schools are parks & recreation, public libraries, community
colleges, parking lots, regional transportation, performing arts facilities, health clinics, hospitals,
YMCAs, church groups, eldercare facilities (kitchen, classrooms, arts/activities, meals-on-wheels),
daycare providers and senior centers. Schools could also be a component of mixed use
developments. An example of this is a proposed school within the Vancouver Innovation Center in
East Vancouver.

SCHOOLS & TRANSPORTATION
Trafﬁc can get congested around schools at the beginning and end of the school day and during
large community events. Signiﬁcantly less students walk and ride bikes to school than in the past.
In 2014, 15 percent of students in Washington State walked to or from school and 1 percent biked.
In comparison, in 1969, 48 percent of students walked or biked to school. Today, more parents are
driving their children to school, more high school students are driving themselves to school and
more students who live within 1 mile of the school must ride the school bus due to an inadequate
“safe walking” environment.

Walking and bike riding for transportation are part of an active lifestyle that is associated with
increased health beneﬁts. Recent trends in travel to school have raised concerns of increased
juvenile obesity and associated diseases. In addition, fewer cars on the road produce less pollution
and congestion. Studies performed by the Environmental Protection Agency indicate that school
proximity to students matters, especially at the elementary level. Schools which are located at the
center of communities and which are co-located with other community activities are supportive of
students walking and biking to school.

The built environment also inﬂuences travel choices. Students traveling through higher-quality
environments (reduced trafﬁc-related danger such as sidewalks, crossing signals and better
enforcement of speed limits, combined with classroom education of pedestrian and bike skills) are
more likely to bike and walk to and from school. In response, governments at every level have
launched a variety of policy initiatives. The “Safe Routes to Schools Program” is providing funding
to improve the education, enforcement and built environment for students.


329                                                                               S CHOOL E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045

A robust public transportation system is also necessary to support schools as community centers.
Some students don’t have another means to get to and from school for before- and after-school
activities.

The Transportation Element of this plan contains policies encouraging walking and biking through
the built environment and connectivity between school facilities and other community facilities. It
also contains a transit section that is supportive of public transportation.

SCHOOLS & HOUSING
As Clark County accommodates additional growth, the quality of the developed landscape
becomes more and more critical to providing sustainable, quality education. Education literature
suggests that where a child lives largely determines that child’s educational opportunities and, in
some cases, that translates to success. Studies show that providing a variety of housing prices and
types within a school attendance area to allow economically disadvantaged children into
mainstream middle-class communities improves learning success for all. The land use policies in
the GMA and in the Housing Element of this plan are supportive of the provision and equitable
distribution of affordable housing.

SCHOOLS & THE ECONOMY
The role that quality education plays in growing a strong local economy is vital. Our community
expects us to prepare students for world competition in an increasingly challenging global
economy. In addition, having well-educated, involved citizens is a priority if we are to have high-
performance local governments, solve our community’s other pressing problems and create and
enhance a livable community.

The land use policies in the Economic Development Element of this plan are supportive of schools
by focusing on providing an increased number of family wage jobs, which improves family stability
and learning success. The Economic Development Element also includes goals for the education
community to be supportive of growing our economy. As a major employer within a community,
schools contribute to those goals by providing numerous job opportunities, but some districts
have faced budget cuts resulting in the reduction of positions due to decreased funding.

SCHOOLS & PARKS
School districts frequently enter into partnerships with the county or cities for the co-location of
parks with school recreational facilities. Many schools are co-located with a park and/or share
athletic ﬁelds.

Prune Hill Elementary School is an example of such a partnership. In this case the Camas School
District partnered with the City of Camas in the use of Prune Hill Park, which is adjacent to and



S CHOOL E LEMENT                                                                                 330
                                       CLARK2045
being developed concurrently with the school. The school will use the park during the school day,
while the community will have access to it at other times. The cooperation saved money for both
the city and the school district. The park and school are located in a suburban residential area.

INTERGOVERNMENTAL COORDINATION
The quality of public schools is crucial to the overall quality of life in Clark County and cities in
Clark County. Land use policies and the development regulations that implement the land use
policies; have a direct effect on school districts, public school facilities and the provision of quality
education. Similarly, school district decisions regarding the location of school facilities, educational
programs that are offered and the way in which our children are educated has a direct effect on
the county and cities in the county. It is critical to the future of our community that the county,
cities in the county and the school districts work in partnership to coordinate facilities and the
provision of services. There is great value in integrating public school facility planning with the
county’s and cities’ comprehensive land use plans.


C O M M U N I T Y I N VO L V E M E N T & P U B L IC P AR T IC I P AT I O N
In 2006, the county council established the Clark County Quality Schools Advisory Committee at
the request of the school districts. The districts requested that school issues inform the 2007
Comprehensive Growth Management Plan periodic update in four areas: quality education,
impacts of growth and development, quality facilities and proactively responding to growth. The
task force prepared the School Element that was subsequently adopted in 2007. Following the
adoption of the School Element, the group continued to meet until mid-2011.

In 2017, the county council established the Clark County Schools Advisory Council. The charge of
the group is to:

    •   Work to understand, discuss, and seek consensus on regional school issues,
    •   Develop recommendations and identify an implementation strategy,
    •   Members would be liaisons between constituents and the schools, representing the
        community as a whole, and
    •   Develop recommendations that reﬂect a broad and balanced range of community needs,
        interests, expectations and perspectives.

Membership in the Schools Advisory Council includes: county council representatives, K-12
school district representatives, early learning and higher education representatives,
neighborhood association representatives, economic development and county services
representatives.




331                                                                                 S CHOOL E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
EXISTING FACILITIES

P U B L I C K-12 F AC I L IT I E S
Educational services to elementary, middle and high school students in Clark County are provided
by ten different school districts, which are operated and funded independently of county or
municipal government. The school districts each prepare enrollment projections and plans for new
facilities based on demographic data and expected growth in the communities they serve. The
school planning horizon required by GMA is 6 years for capital facilities, including the intended
funding source, updated at least every 4 years. Many districts also plan at a more conceptual level
for the 20 year horizon.

State funding regulations result in new facilities being constructed after growth has occurred and
a need can be demonstrated. School districts also are cautious not to overbuild permanent
buildings since the average lifespan of a school is ﬁfty years and growth may signiﬁcantly increase
and decline during that time. For these reasons, "portable" or "temporary" classrooms are
common in fast growing districts.

A summary of current school district facilities, the number of new school facilities that are
projected for the next six years, as well as the number of additional schools that are projected to
serve students from housing that is forecast at build-out (or twenty years) is located in Appendix E
CFP.


H I G H E R E DU C AT I O N F A C IL I T I E S
Higher education facilities within Clark County include Clark College, a 2-year institution and the
Washington State University - Vancouver campus (WSUV), a 4-year institution. Clark College and
WSUV have arranged a guaranteed transfer pathway for Clark College students who are
completing direct transfer degrees at Clark College. WSUV offers more than two dozen ﬁelds of
study and several master’s and doctorate degrees and continues to develop the Salmon Creek
area campus according to an adopted Master Plan. Clark College offers off-site learning
opportunities at the Clark Center, which houses its nursing studies program, classrooms and
faculty ofﬁces, opened on the WSUV campus, and at their east Vancouver campus in the Columbia
Tech Center to capitalize on high-tech industry growth. Clark College is building its next satellite
location in Ridgeﬁeld, WA. This location will feature state-of-the-art advanced manufacturing labs
and classrooms. The vision for this site is to create a space that is ﬂexible and can grow with
emerging technologies in advanced manufacturing. In addition to their Associates and Certiﬁcate
degree options, Clark College offers 4-year Bachelor of Applied Science degrees in Applied
Management, Dental Hygiene, Human Services, and Cybersecurity.




S CHOOL E LEMENT                                                                               332
                                       CLARK2045
GOALS & POLICIES
The Growth Management Act requires the county and cities to plan for the location and provision
of public schools. Schools are one of the public facilities that are addressed in the capital facilities
element of the county’s and cities’ comprehensive plans. This 20-year Plan contains the goals and
policies for schools. The goals and policies were prepared in cooperation with the school districts
that are responsible for the school facilities and provision of public education. The goals and
policies are intended to implement a coordinated approach that integrates the provision of quality
education into overall planning for the communities that depend on quality schools and education.
The goals and policies also are intended to provide guidance to the county, cities, school district
and developers regarding the acquisition and development of school facilities. The policies and
implementing regulations are intended to assure the provision of proper education facilities at the
time the students enroll.

School planning cannot be in isolation. The relationship between school, land-use, economic
development, housing and transportation policies must be in concert and directly tied to each
other throughout the comprehensive plan.


10.1        C O U N T Y W I D E P L A N N IN G P OL I C I ES
            10.1.1      The county and each city shall give full consideration to the importance of
                        school facilities and encourage development of sustainable learning
                        environments through the adoption and implementation of county and city
                        comprehensive land use plan policies and development regulations.

            10.1.2      The county and the cities shall jointly establish a school advisory body that
                        is comprised of representatives from the county, cities, school districts and
                        special purpose districts and other interest groups. The advisory body may
                        undertake the following, but shall in no way compromise or complicate an
                        individual district’s authority to take actions on its own in its best interest:

                        •   Uniform data collection. Identify, monitor and report to the community,
                            at least annually, on the key performance indicators related to quality
                            schools, capital facilities plans and community development (Note: one
                            of the points is to be able to relate schools data to other annual planning
                            data provided by the cities and the county);
                        •   State and federal law issues. Develop issue papers and consensus
                            recommendations regarding provisions of state and federal law which
                            impact the adequacy and/or timely provision of school capital facilities.
                        •   Policy development and implementation. Actively participate in the
                            development or amendment of city and county comprehensive plans
                            and development regulations relating to or impacting schools including:
                            o Location of Urban Growth Areas;


333                                                                                 S CHOOL E LEMENT
                                    CLARK2045
                        o   Location and mix of residential land use designations;
                        o   Commercial/industrial tax base within each school district;
                        o   Potential location of future school sites;
                        o   Potential co-location of school facilities with other public facilities
                            (i.e. parks);
                        o   Phasing of residential development;
                        o   Private/public partnerships;
                        o   School facility permitting processes;
                        o   School impact fees; and
                        o   Last resort safety net considerations.

          10.1.3     The county and each city shall include sufﬁcient vacant land at adequate
                     sizes in the future land use categories to meet projected demand for new
                     schools and appropriately designate and zone school properties for school-
                     related uses.

          10.1.4     Large residential development should confer with school districts on school
                     impacts.

          10.1.5     Work cooperatively with school districts to facilitate permitting of new
                     facilities and modernization of older facilities through clear regulations,
                     effective on-site and off-site improvements, team approaches and shared
                     information regarding county processes.

          10.1.6     Encourage jurisdictions to cooperate in planning and permitting school
                     facilities through land use policies and regulations that minimize the
                     ﬁnancial burden associated with developing school facilities.


C O U N T Y 20-Y E AR P L A N N I N G P O L I C I E S

GOAL:
Encourage the location of new school facilities in areas where they can best serve
students and the community.

10.2      Policies

          10.2.1     School facilities serving predominantly urban populations should be
                     preferably located in urban growth areas then in rural areas adjacent to the
                     urban growth boundary, subject to Policy 10.2.2.

          10.2.2     School facilities may be located in the rural areas where necessary to serve
                     population growth within the urban growth area, subject to the following:




S CHOOL E LEMENT                                                                                334
                              CLARK2045
               •   School facilities shall be located as close to the urban growth boundary
                   as possible, preferably within ¼ mile.
               •   Before siting a school facility outside the urban growth area, the school
                   district shall demonstrate that the proposed site is more suitable than
                   alternative sites within the existing urban growth area. Suitability
                   includes factors such as size, topography, zoning, surrounding land uses,
                   transportation, environmental concerns and location within the area to
                   be served.
               •   The school district shall demonstrate that the transportation facilities
                   serving the site are adequate to support site generated trafﬁc, including
                   buses.
               •   Upon locating any school facility in the urban reserve or rural area, the
                   school district shall agree to connect to public water and sewer, subject
                   to agreement of the county and any affected cities, and with all costs of
                   such extension being borne by the applicable school district. Such
                   service shall have access restrictions precluding service to the Rural
                   Areas.

      10.2.3   School facilities may be located in rural areas where necessary to serve
               population growth and attendance areas principally lying outside of the
               UGA or Rural Centers, subject to the following:

               •   Before siting school facilities in the rural area, the district shall
                   demonstrate that the proposed site is more suitable than alternative
                   sites within a UGA, urban reserve area or Rural Center. Suitability
                   includes factors such as size, topography, zoning, surrounding land uses,
                   transportation, environmental concerns and location within the area to
                   be served.
               •   The school district shall demonstrate that the transportation facilities
                   serving the site are adequate to support site generated trafﬁc, including
                   buses.
               •   Upon locating any school facility in the urban reserve or rural area, the
                   school district shall agree to connect to public water and sewer, subject
                   to agreement of the county and any affected cities, and with all costs of
                   such extension being borne by the applicable school district. Such
                   service shall have access restrictions precluding service to the Rural
                   Areas.

      10.2.4   To encourage efﬁcient and effective planning and to support neighborhood
               and community redevelopment, school facilities shall be allowed as either a
               conditional use or a permitted use in all urban zoning districts. Elementary
               (K-5) are natural elements of residential neighborhoods. They shall be
               permitted and not subject to conditional use permits.


335                                                                     S CHOOL E LEMENT
                                    CLARK2045
GOAL:
Support co-locating facilities where co-location is feasible and provides more eﬃcient
use of public facilities.

10.3      Policies

          10.3.1     The county and school districts should explore the possibility of siting new
                     facilities jointly with private, non-proﬁt, or other local government owned
                     facilities on sites that are in locations that best serve the growth projected
                     by the comprehensive plan.

          10.3.2     Where it is feasible (future school location is reasonably known),
                     coordinate school facility plans with transportation facility plans so that
                     roads, bicycle routes and pedestrian routes are planned to serve future
                     schools.

          10.3.3     Develop pedestrian and bicycle corridors between schools and housing,
                     within neighborhoods and rural centers.

          10.3.4     Include school master planning in sub-area planning and/or neighborhood
                     or community redevelopment plans.

GOAL:
Adopt policies and implementing regulations that expedite the review and approval of
school facilities to reduce costs without compromising the opportunity for public
participation.

GOAL:
Require new development that places added demands on school facilities to pay a
portion of the cost for school facilities through impact fees or other alternative
mechanisms authorized by State Law.

10.5      Policies

          10.5.1     Provide for the use of School Impact Fees as a funding source for school
                     capital facilities.

          10.5.2     Capital Facilities Plans for the school districts of Vancouver, Evergreen,
                     Battle Ground, Camas, Washougal, Ridgeﬁeld, Hockinson, La Center,
                     Woodland and Green Mountain shall be adopted by reference through the
                     adoption of the 20-Year Comprehensive Plan.




S CHOOL E LEMENT                                                                               336
                                  CLARK2045
GOAL:
Provide a continuum of educational opportunities responsive to the changing needs of
the work place locally and regionally.

10.6     Policies

         10.6.1     Encourage continuing education, skills upgrading, mentoring and lifelong
                    learning programs suitable for large and small employers.

         10.6.2     Consider incentives to link proposed industrial development projects with
                    job training, education and housing programs.

         10.6.3     Encourage improvement of the region’s educational network, including pre-
                    K-12 and higher education.




337                                                                        S CHOOL E LEMENT
                   CLARK2045




S CHOOL E LEMENT               338
CHAPTER
COMMUNITY DESIGN ELEMENT
                           11
                                     CLARK2045

CHAPTER 11
Community Design Element

INTRODUCTION
The design of our communities is an important element in realizing the goals and policies of the
Growth Management Act, the Community Framework Plan, the vision of Clark County’s citizens and
the 20-Year Plan.

The Community Design Element relates urban, suburban and rural development to the natural
environment. The understanding of these relationships has been central in drafting the 20-Year
Plan.

As in natural systems, communities function best when they follow the principles of diversity and
interdependence of uses and buildings and the relationship of the physical environment to the
human scale that is walkable and supportive of transportation alternatives.

BACKGROUND
Through the Perspectives Program which began in October 1991 to develop the Community
Framework Plan, citizens in Clark County expressed their opinion about the design of their
community. Overriding themes from the comments were:

   •   preserve open space and natural areas;
   •   encourage land development that preserves a sense of place and a feeling of community;
   •   encourage development of a transit system;
   •   develop a better diversity of employment opportunities and housing;
   •   avoid sprawling developments; and,
   •   design criteria are important to the acceptance of higher densities.

These comments lead directly to the development of a Community Design Element. To support
and help implement the policies in this element, several plans created by and with the community,
help to assure we are developing and sustaining healthy and age-friendly communities. Something
as simple as a sidewalk can improve your health and the health of your neighbors by encouraging
walking for recreation or travel. Research shows that there are key features of communities that
inﬂuence health, such as parks, safe streets, public gathering places and easy access to healthy
food. Examples include the Aging Readiness Plan (ARP), ADA Transition Plan for Transportation
Facilities, Housing Options Study and Action Plan (HOSAP), Community Health Assessment (CHA)
and Community Health Improvement Plan (CHIP). These related documents integrate with and
further implement the goals and policies within the Community Design Element. The Community


C OMMUNITY D ESIGN E LEMENT                                                                   340
                                       CLARK2045
Design Element is affected by and integrated with several of the other elements within the plan.
The Land Use Element develops policy direction for urban form and critical areas and, in turn,
affects the Land Use Element by providing guidelines for how the urban form can be achieved and
critical areas be integrated into future projects. This similar policy direction for rural and natural
resource areas also affects community design.

The Community Design Element is an integral part of the Transportation Element as the policies
in this element direct the use of alternative modes of transportation to facilitate a pedestrian
friendly environment.

The Community Design Element is also affected by policies within the Housing Element which
provides for a variety of housing types in recognition of the various social and economic segments
of the population.

A major component to the Community Design Element is the development of parks and open
spaces. Policies within the Parks, Recreation and Open Space Element provide guidelines for the
acquisition and development of such sites.

The Community Design Element is affected by the policies within the Historic, Archaeological and
Cultural Preservation Element which recognizes the need to retain and integrate the historical
character of the community with new development.

Implementing the goals and policies of the 20-Year Plan can provide predictability in the planning
process and development of design standards which encourage a sense of community and make
concepts such as “higher density” more acceptable. This can be accomplished by drawing on the
best features of our older neighborhoods and looking to the redevelopment of similar areas in the
region. A common element of these older neighborhoods is a mixture of uses in compact
development that is comfortable for walking, or pedestrian-oriented.

These truly functional neighborhoods contain housing, parks and schools located within walking
distance of shops, civic uses, jobs and transit. This still allows for the convenience of the car, but
also for the opportunity to walk, bike or use transit. At the regional scale, this means a network of
neighborhood centers, transit corridors, urban activity centers, small cities and towns and rural
centers. This development is centered on an expanding transit system, urban growth area limits
and open space.

This 20-Year Plan directs a change in current development trends, however, part of this change
needs to include how to make these changes occur and to understand the need for these changes.
For example, as a community we need to modify our thinking that higher density areas equate to
more crime or are not owner-occupied.

Higher density developments have many different forms such as townhouses, “plexes” (du- tri- and
quadplexes), cottage and compact lot developments, garden apartments, and accessory units
(granny ﬂats). Anton Nelessen's Visual Preference Survey conducted for the Vancouver


341                                                                 C OMMUNITY D ESIGN E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
Partnership Planning Area in March 1993 illustrated that well-designed, high density
developments were more appealing than typical single-family suburban tract developments. The
main ingredients of these developments were human scale and pedestrian orientation. Design
elements that contribute to a sense of place include structures which are built nearer to the street,
front porches, landscaping, convenient walkways, narrower streets and parking on the street and
behind the structures.

GOALS & POLICIES

11.0       C O U N T Y W I D E P L A N N IN G P OL I C I ES
           11.0.1      The community design element shall help conserve resources and minimize
                       waste.

           11.0.2      The county's community design standards shall be appropriate to the
                       region, exhibiting continuity of history and culture and compatibility with
                       the climate and encourage the development of local character and
                       community identity.

           11.0.3      The goals and policies of this element are intended to:
                       • clarify and deﬁne design objectives for zoning ordinances;
                       • reduce review time during the design phase of proposed projects;
                       • improve the visual attractiveness of the community;
                       • encourage quality architecture and landscape design;
                       • minimize land use conﬂicts; and,
                       • develop clear and consistent analysis of new projects.

C O U N T Y 20-Y E AR P L A N N I N G P O L I C I E S

GOAL:
Natural features of Clark County should be incorporated into design and development.

11.1       Policies

           11.1.1      Maintain and enhance formal and informal open spaces throughout the
                       urban areas that include parks, trails and green spaces.

           11.1.2      In the urban area, waterfront development should be environmentally
                       sensitive and allow maximum public access.

           11.1.3      Natural land features should be recognized and integrated into the
                       placement of buildings and in site planning. Streams, hillsides and unique



C OMMUNITY D ESIGN E LEMENT                                                                     342
                                    CLARK2045
                     vegetation should be considered strong design determinants and
                     incorporated into the overall plan.

          11.1.4     The siting of buildings should take advantage of river, mountain, lake and
                     agricultural/pastoral views.

          11.1.5     Encourage the retention and inclusion of existing mature vegetation as a
                     design element in the site plan. Every effort should be made to preserve
                     existing trees over 8” in diameter.

          11.1.6     Where new development adjoins agricultural or rural land or public open
                     space, a soft transitional edge should be provided on-site to create a
                     gradual transition between the open space and new development.

GOAL:
Development in urban areas and rural centers should incorporate diverse uses designed
in a manner that provides for a sense of community, supports the human scale and
allows for multi-modal transportation options.

11.2      Policies

          11.2.1     Encourage the development of multi-story, mixed uses and other
                     commercial uses that utilize regional architectural styles and are at a
                     human scale.

          11.2.2     Encourage inﬁll and conversion of existing single uses to mixed use centers
                     in the urban centers and transit corridors.

          11.2.3     Encourage developments in urban and rural centers that maintain the
                     unique character of the center, e.g., public commons, storefronts, setbacks,
                     landscaping and pedestrian orientation.

          11.2.4     Develop pedestrian and bicycle corridors between schools, housing, within
                     neighborhoods and rural centers.

          11.2.5     Promote the development of identiﬁable residential neighborhoods and
                     shopping districts through the encouragement of more compact
                     development patterns, the use of shared design and landscaping
                     characteristics and development of landmarks.

GOAL:
Housing in Clark County should provide for a variety of styles, be oriented to the street
and be supportive of pedestrian and transportation alternatives.



343                                                             C OMMUNITY D ESIGN E LEMENT
                                   CLARK2045
11.3     Policies

         11.3.1     Incorporate zoning standards that allow housing units to front on and
                    relate to streets by encouraging elements such as balconies, porches, bay
                    windows or decks that promote front yard activity.

         11.3.2     Create incentives for developments which provide pedestrian access,
                    public commons, maintain existing vegetation and are integrated with
                    existing development.

         11.3.3     Encourage the design of residential inﬁll developments that reﬂect or
                    improve the existing neighborhood character.

         11.3.4     Establish an adequate side yard setback in residential areas for
                    nonresidential uses including buildings, storage and parking.

GOAL:
Transportation and parking requirements shall use land eﬃciently and be oriented to
pedestrian and transit uses and minimize dependence on the automobile.

11.4     Policies

         11.4.1     Develop design standards that create pedestrian friendly streets and public
                    spaces.

         11.4.2     Study parking supply and demand in the county. Develop parking standards
                    that reﬂect decreased demand generated by such things as pedestrian
                    facilities, bike paths, improved transit, transit demand management
                    measures and mixed use developments.

         11.4.3     Revise road standards to respect human scale rather than highway scale by:

                    •   Reducing road widths wherever feasible.
                    •   Reducing street lighting with appropriate cut-off to limit glare.
                    •   Require sidewalk and design elements for pedestrian activity along
                        major arterials including items such as benches, pedestrian-scale street
                        lighting, trash containers, landscaping, paving textures, public art, etc.

         11.4.4     Coordinate zoning code and road standards to develop pedestrian friendly
                    streets that encourage minimal front yard setbacks, rear yard parking,
                    alleys and mixed uses.




C OMMUNITY D ESIGN E LEMENT                                                                   344
                                  CLARK2045
         11.4.5    Develop street plans beyond the arterial system to include a dense network
                   of interconnecting streets as opposed to low density cul-de-sacs and
                   widely-spaced arterials.

         11.4.6    Require street connections or, if not feasible due to site conditions, provide
                   pedestrian connections through the use of easements or pedestrian paths
                   in rights-of-way.

         11.4.7    Develop design standards for transit facilities.

         11.4.8    Develop commercial zoning and transportation ordinance standards that:

                   •   require similar uses provide cross-access between properties and joint
                       access to arterials and collectors;
                   •   provide for separate vehicular and pedestrian circulation in the site
                       development plan of new projects and substantial remodels;
                   •   provide for pedestrian walkways along roads with landscape buffers as
                       separation between roads and walkways;
                   •   provide for dedicated internal pedestrian circulation within the
                       development;
                   •   provide opportunities for surface parking lots to develop transit-
                       oriented uses; and,
                   •   provide standards for adequate buffering between incompatible
                       industrial, commercial and residential uses.

GOAL:
Development in urban areas and rural centers should incorporate design standards and
aesthetically visually attractive developments.




345                                                            C OMMUNITY D ESIGN E LEMENT
                              CLARK2045




C OMMUNITY D ESIGN E LEMENT               346
CHAPTER
ANNEXATION ELEMENT
                     12
                                      CLARK2045

CHAPTER 12
Annexation Element

INTRODUCTION
The Growth Management Act may encourage but it does not require annexation of urbanized
areas to cities. The act’s major focus in on preservation of resource lands, containment of urban
sprawl within urban growth boundaries and provision of urban services within those urban growth
boundaries.

With most cities in Clark County, the UGAs surrounding them are not typically developed at urban
densities. Unlike the smaller cities, Vancouver is surrounded by large unincorporated areas that
are highly developed at urban densities.

Until early 2006, annexation proposals were reviewed by the Boundary Review Board for Clark
County, which was required to make decisions consistent with its statutory objectives (RCW
36.93.180). Under the provisions of the GMA, the Board of Clark County Commissioners
disbanded the Boundary Review Board.

The following Countywide Planning Policies (CWPP), adopted by the Board of Clark County
Commissioners, provides a framework for addressing regional issues for both the county and the
cities. Additional policies set the framework for discussion of the details that will be included in
the 20-Year Growth Management Plans for these jurisdictions.


12.0       C O U N T Y W I D E P L A N N IN G P OL I C I ES
           12.0.1      Community Comprehensive Plans shall contain an annexation element. In
                       collaboration with adjacent cities, towns and Clark County, each city and
                       town shall designate areas to be annexed. Each city and town shall adopt
                       criteria for annexation and a plan for providing urban services and facilities
                       within the annexation area. Policies for the transition of services shall be
                       included in each annexation element. All cities and towns shall phase
                       annexations to coincide with their ability to provide a full range of urban
                       services to areas to be annexed.

           12.0.2      Developing areas within urban growth and identiﬁed annexation areas
                       should annex or commit to annex to adjacent cities in order to receive a full
                       range of city-provided urban services. Unincorporated areas that are
                       already urbanized are encouraged to annex to the appropriate city or town
                       that provides the urban services. Incorporation of new cities and towns is a
                       legal option allowed for under Washington law. Incorporation may be

A NNEXATION E LEMENT                                                                             348
                                    CLARK2045
                     appropriate if an adequate ﬁnancial base is identiﬁed or annexation is
                     impractical.

          12.0.3     The county shall encourage, facilitate and support annexations to cities and
                     town within Urban Growth Areas if consistent with the policies contained
                     within the annexation element.

          12.0.4     No city or town may annex territory beyond an urban growth area.

          12.0.5     An inter-jurisdictional analysis and process which assesses the ﬁscal and
                     other impacts related to annexation on the county, the city or town and
                     special purpose districts shall be developed consistent with RCW 35.13 and
                     RCW 35A.14 and the policies contained in the annexation proposal.


20-Y E A R P L A N N I N G P OL I C I E S

GOAL:
Annexations must be consistent with RCW 35.13, the orderly transition from county
jurisdiction to the appropriate municipality, either through annexation or incorporation,
if and when either should occur.

12.1      Procedures

          12.1.1     The county will use a standardized system to assess each proposed
                     annexation. At a minimum, the following issues should be addressed:
                     • preservation of natural neighborhoods and communities;
                     • use of physical boundaries, including but not limited to bodies of water,
                        highways and land contours;
                     • creation and preservation of logical service areas;
                     • prevention of abnormally irregular boundaries; and
                     • transition of services such as public safety, parks and recreation,
                        transportation and utility services.

          12.1.2     Each city or town shall provide the county with its plan and timeline for
                     annexations and, if applicable, any triggering mechanisms or thresholds
                     which would initiate annexation.

          12.1.3     Public information shall be provided jointly or individually by both the
                     county and the annexing jurisdiction so that residents have adequate
                     information.

12.2      Policies: Annexations will be analyzed based on: (1) whether sewer and water
          services are provided by a city and (2) whether the urban growth area at issue is



349                                                                      A NNEXATION E LEMENT
                                 CLARK2045
         characterized or adjacent to an area characterized by unincorporated urban growth
         and (3) compliance with state law.

         12.2.1    It is expected that urban growth areas will develop at urban levels-of-
                   service and be annexed to the nearest jurisdiction. For urban growth areas
                   that are not likely to annex, urban services may be provided by special
                   purpose districts.

         12.2.2    Properties within or adjacent to areas characterized by signiﬁcant
                   unincorporated urban growth that are not and are not likely to be provided
                   by a city, may undergo urban development while unincorporated as long as
                   adequate urban services including but not limited to, sewer and water are
                   provided by special purpose districts. Whether or not these areas are
                   ultimately annexed or incorporated is a decision for the property owners
                   and the electorate of such an area. These properties include those located
                   in the Hazel Dell, Salmon Creek and Felida areas.




A NNEXATION E LEMENT                                                                      350
CHAPTER
SHORELINE MASTER PROGRAM
                           13
                                      CLARK2045

CHAPTER 13
Shoreline Master Program

INTRODUCTION
This chapter contains Clark County’s Shoreline Master Program Goals and Policies. These goals
and policies are implemented by Chapter 40.460 of the Clark County Code. These goals and
policies, along with Chapter 40.460 and the Ofﬁcial Shoreline Map are adopted as the Clark County
Shoreline Master Program (Program).

The Shoreline Management Act (SMA) (RCW 90.58) was adopted in 1971. In 1995, the state
legislature amended the Growth Management Act to add the goals and policies of the SMA as one
of the goals of the Growth Management Act (RCW 36.70A.480).

The SMA requires local governments to plan for the use of shorelines within their jurisdictions.
The SMA and WAC 173-26 establish a broad policy giving preference to shoreline uses that:

   1. Depend on proximity to the shoreline ("water-dependent uses");
   2. Protect biological and ecological resources, water quality and the natural environment;
       and
   3. Preserve and enhance public access or increase recreational opportunities for the public
       along shorelines.
Clark County’s ﬁrst shoreline master program (SMP) was adopted in 1974. The county adopted a
comprehensive update to its SMP in 2012.

GENERAL SHORELINE GOALS
The general goals of this Program are to:

    1. Use the full potential of shorelines in accordance with the opportunities presented by
       their relationship to the surrounding area, their natural resource values and their unique
       aesthetic qualities offered by water, topography and views; and
    2. Develop a physical environment that is both ordered and diversiﬁed and which integrates
       water and shoreline uses while achieving a net gain of ecological function.

SHORELINES OF STATEWIDE SIGNIFICANCE
Within the County, the Columbia and Lewis Rivers, portions of the East Fork Lewis and Washougal
Rivers, Lakes Merwin, Vancouver and Yale are designated shorelines of statewide signiﬁcance
(SSWS). Shorelines of statewide signiﬁcance are of value to the entire state. In accordance with
RCW 90.58.020, SSWS will be managed as follows:



S HORELINE M ASTER P ROGRAM                                                                    352
                                     CLARK2045
   1. Preference shall be given to the uses that are consistent with the statewide interest in
      such shorelines. These are uses that:

       •   Recognize and protect the statewide interest over local interest;
       •   Preserve the natural character of the shoreline;
       •   Result in long-term over short-term beneﬁt;
       •   Protect the resources and ecological function of the shoreline;
       •   Increase public access to publicly-owned areas of the shorelines;
       •   Increase recreational opportunities for the public in the shoreline; and
       •   Provide for any other element as deﬁned in RCW 90.58.100 deemed appropriate or
           necessary.

   2. Uses that are not consistent with these policies should not be permitted on SSWS.

   3. Those limited shorelines containing unique, scarce and/or sensitive resources should be
      protected.

   4. Development should be focused in already developed shoreline areas to reduce adverse
      environmental impacts and to preserve undeveloped shoreline areas. In general, SSWS
      should be preserved for future generations by restricting or prohibiting development that
      would irretrievably damage shoreline resources and evaluating the short-term economic
      gain or convenience of developments relative to the long-term and potentially costly
      impairments to the natural shoreline.


A R C H A E O L O G I C AL , H I S T O R IC & C U L T U R AL R E S O U R C E S

GOAL
The goal for archaeological, historic and cultural resources is to preserve and prevent
the destruction of or damage to any site having historic, cultural, scientiﬁc, or
educational value. Such sites include those identiﬁed by aﬀected Native American
tribes, the Department of Archaeology and Historic Preservation, Clark County Historic
Preservation Commission and other appropriate authorities.

Policies

   1. Identify, protect, preserve and restore important archaeological, historic and cultural sites
      located in shorelands of the state for educational, scientiﬁc and enjoyment of the general
      public.

   2. Where appropriate, make access to such sites available to parties of interest, provided that
      access to such sites be designed and managed in a manner that protects the resource.




353                                                              S HORELINE M ASTER P ROGRAM
                                     CLARK2045
   3. Historical and cultural sites should be acquired so as to ensure their protection and
      preservation.

   4. Encourage projects and programs that foster a greater appreciation of shoreline
      management, local history, maritime activities, environmental conservation and maritime
      history.

   5. Continue to contribute to the state and local inventory of archaeological sites enhancing
      knowledge of local history and understanding of human activities.


CONSERVATION

GOAL
The goal of conservation is to protect shoreline resources, vegetation, important
shoreline features, shoreline ecological functions and the processes that sustain them
to the maximum extent practicable.

Policies

   1. Shorelines that support high value habitat or high quality associated wetlands should be
      considered for the highest level of protection to remain in an unaltered condition.

   2. Impacts to critical areas should ﬁrst be avoided and where unavoidable, minimized and
      mitigated to result in no net loss of watershed processes and shorelines functions.

   3. Management practices for natural resources (including agriculture, timber and mining) in
      shoreline areas should be developed and implemented to ensure the preservation of non-
      renewable resources, including unique, scenic and ecologically sensitive features, wetlands
      and wildlife habitat.

   4. Priority should be given to proposals to create, restore, or enhance habitat for priority
      species in terms of administrative and regulatory assistance.

   5. Regulatory, non-regulatory and incentive programs should all be used for the protection
      and conservation of wildlife habitat areas. Emphasize policies and standards to protect and
      conserve critical areas as larger blocks, corridors or interconnected areas rather than in
      isolated parcels.

   6. Encourage the retention of existing vegetation along shorelines and where removal is
      unavoidable for physical or visual access to the shoreline, limit alteration such that habitat
      connectivity is maintained, degraded areas are restored and the health of remaining
      vegetation is not compromised.




S HORELINE M ASTER P ROGRAM                                                                       354
                                     CLARK2045
E C O N O M IC D E V EL O P M E N T

GOAL
The goal for economic development is to create and maintain an economic environment
that is balanced with the natural and human environment.

Policies

   1. Current economic activity that is consistent with the policies of this Program should
      continue to be supported.

   2. Healthy economic growth is allowed and encouraged through those economic activities
      that will be an asset to the local economy and which will result in the least possible adverse
      effect on the quality of the shoreline and downstream environments.

   3. New water-oriented industrial, commercial and resource-based activities that will not
      harm the quality of the site’s environment, adjacent shorelands, or water quality are
      encouraged along the shoreline.

   4. As an economic asset, the recreation industry should be encouraged along shorelines in a
      manner that will enhance the public enjoyment of shorelines, consistent with protection of
      critical areas and cultural resources.

   5. Existing non-water-oriented commercial, industrial and resource-based activities located
      in the shoreline jurisdiction are encouraged to protect watershed processes and shoreline
      ecological functions.


FLOOD PREVENTION & FLOOD DAMAGE MINIMIZATION

GOAL
The goal for ﬂood hazards is to promote public health, safety and general welfare by
minimizing public and private losses due to ﬂood conditions in speciﬁc areas and by
maintaining and restoring natural ﬂow patterns.

Policies

   1. All shoreline development should be located, designed and constructed to prevent ﬂood
      damage and to the extent possible be located outside of shoreline jurisdiction.

   2. Flood management works should be located, designed, constructed and maintained to
      protect:
      a. the physical integrity and other properties of the shoreline and other properties that
         may be damaged by alterations of the geo-hydraulic system;
      b. water quality and natural groundwater movement;


355                                                               S HORELINE M ASTER P ROGRAM
                                     CLARK2045
       c. ﬁsh, vegetation and other life forms and their habitat vital to the aquatic food chain;
          and
       d. recreation resources and aesthetic values such as point and channel bars, islands and
          other shoreline features and scenery.

   3. Non-structural ﬂood hazard reduction measures are preferred to structural measures.
      Flood hazard reduction measures should be accomplished in a manner that ensures no net
      loss of shoreline ecological functions and ecosystem-wide processes.

   4. Flood protection measures that result in channelization and/or reduction in shoreline
      ecological function should be avoided.

   5. Proposals for shoreline protection should clearly demonstrate that life, property and
      natural resource values within the stream system will not be endangered.

   6. When evaluating alternate ﬂood control measures, consider the removal or relocation of
      structures in ﬂood-prone areas.

   7. New development or new uses in shoreline jurisdiction, including the subdivision of land,
      should not be established when it would be reasonably foreseeable that the development
      or use would require structural ﬂood hazard reduction measures within the channel
      migration zone or ﬂoodway.


P U B L I C A C C E S S & R E C R E AT I O N

GOAL
The goal of public access and recreation is to increase the ability of the general public
to enjoy the water's edge, travel on the waters of the state and to view the water and
the shoreline from adjacent locations.

Policies

   1. Provide, protect and enhance a public access system that is both physical and visual;
      utilizes both private and public lands; increases the amount and diversity of public access
      to the State's shorelines and adjacent areas; and is consistent with the shoreline character
      and functions, private rights and public safety.

   2. Increase and diversify recreational opportunities by promoting the continued public
      acquisition of appropriate shoreline areas for public use and develop recreation facilities
      so that they are distributed throughout the community to foster convenient access.

   3. Locate public access and recreational facilities in a manner that encourages variety,
      accessibility and connectivity in a manner that will preserve the natural characteristics and
      functions of the shoreline.



S HORELINE M ASTER P ROGRAM                                                                   356
                                     CLARK2045
   4. Encourage public access provisions consistent with adopted city and county trails plans.

   5. Encourage public access as part of each development project by a public entity and for all
      private development (except residential development of less than four parcels), unless
      such access is shown to be incompatible due to reasons of safety, security, or impact to the
      shoreline environment.

   6. Discourage shoreline uses that curtail or reduce public access unless such restriction is in
      the interest of the environment, public health and safety, or is necessary to a proposed
      beneﬁcial use.

   7. Consider private rights, public safety and protection of shoreline ecological functions and
      processes when providing public access and recreational opportunities.


RESTORATION

GOAL
The goal of restoration is to re-establish, rehabilitate and/or otherwise improve
impaired shoreline ecological functions and/or processes through voluntary and
incentive-based public and private programs and actions that are consistent with the
SMP Restoration Plan and other approved restoration plans.

Policies

   1. Shorelines that are biologically degraded should be reclaimed and restored to the greatest
      extent feasible.

   2. Restoration strategies should be developed and implemented such that ecosystem
      processes are sustainable in the long term.

   3. Restoration of shoreline ecological functions should be encouraged during redevelopment.

   4. Restoration efforts should include retroﬁtting existing stormwater control facilities to
      improve water quality.

   5. Restoration efforts should consider a focus on ﬂoodplain and channel migration zone
      reconnection where rivers are conﬁned by levees.

   6. Restoration projects should have adaptive management techniques including adjusting the
      project design, correcting problems (barriers to success) and implementing contingency
      measures.

   7. Eradication of invasive species, including noxious weeds and non-native species, should be
      undertaken as needed.

   8. Planting of vegetation that enhances shoreline ecological function should be encouraged.


357                                                              S HORELINE M ASTER P ROGRAM
                                     CLARK2045
   9. Education programs should be developed for:
      a. Property owners about proper vegetation/landscape maintenance and the impacts of
         shore armoring and over-water structures; and
      b. Boaters about proper waste disposal methods, anchoring techniques, best boating
         practices and the State’s invasive species inspection program pursuant to RCW
         77.15.290.

   10. Cooperative restoration actions involving local, state and federal agencies, Native
       American tribes, non-government organizations and landowners should be encouraged.


S H O R E L IN E M O D I F I C AT I O N & S T AB I L I Z AT I O N

GOAL
The goal for shoreline modiﬁcation and stabilization is to avoid or minimize the need
for shoreline armoring along shorelines of the state and when it is necessary, achieve it
in a way that best protects ecosystem processes, shoreline ecological functions and
downstream properties.

Policies

   1. New developments should be located in such a manner as to not require shoreline
      stabilization measures.

   2. When necessary, natural, non-structural shoreline stabilization measures are preferred
      over structural stabilization measures. Alternatives for shoreline stabilization should be
      based on the following hierarchy of preference:
      a. No action;
      b. Flexible stabilization works constructed of natural materials, including soft shore
         protection, bioengineering, beach nourishment, protective berms, or vegetative
         stabilization;
      c. Rigid works constructed of structural materials such as riprap or concrete.

   3. Allow new or expanded structural shore stabilization, including bulkheads, only where it is
      demonstrated to be necessary to protect an existing primary structure that is in danger of
      loss or substantial damage and where such structures and structural stabilization would
      not cause a net loss of shoreline ecological functions and processes.

   4. Shoreline stabilization should be located and designed to accommodate the physical
      character and hydraulic energy potential of a speciﬁc shoreline reach, which may differ
      substantially from adjacent reaches.

   5. Provisions for multiple use, restoration and/or public shore access should be incorporated
      into the location, design and maintenance of shore stabilization for public or quasi-public
      developments whenever safely compatible with the primary purpose. Shoreline


S HORELINE M ASTER P ROGRAM                                                                   358
                                     CLARK2045
       stabilization on publicly owned shorelines should not be allowed to decrease long-term
       public use of the shoreline.

   6. Shoreline stabilization projects should be developed in a coordinated manner among
      affected property owners and public agencies within a reach where feasible, particularly
      those that cross-jurisdictional boundaries, to address ecological and geo-hydraulic
      processes and sediment conveyance.

   7. Failing, harmful, unnecessary, or ineffective shoreline stabilization structures should be
      removed or replaced to restore shoreline ecological functions and processes.

   8. Larger works such as jetties, breakwaters, weirs, or groin systems should be permitted
      only for water-dependent uses and where mitigated to provide no net loss of shoreline
      ecological functions and processes.

   9. Lower impact structures, including ﬂoating, portable or submerged breakwater structures,
      or several smaller discontinuous structures, are preferred over higher impact structures.

   10. Encourage and facilitate levee setback (including but not limited to, pulling back an existing
       levee to allow for a larger ﬂoodplain area contiguous to a water body), levee removal and
       other shoreline enhancement projects.

   11. Materials used for construction of shoreline stabilization should be selected for durability,
       ease of maintenance and compatibility with local shoreline features.

   12. Development and shoreline modiﬁcations that would result in interference with the
       process of channel migration that may cause signiﬁcant adverse impacts to property or
       public improvements and/or result in a net loss of shoreline ecological functions within the
       rivers and streams should be limited.


S H O R E L IN E U S E & D E V E L O P M EN T

GOAL
The goal for shoreline use and development is to balance the preservation and
development of shorelines in a manner that allows for mutually compatible uses.
Resulting land use patterns will be compatible with shoreline designations and sensitive
to and compatible with ecological systems and other shoreline resources. To help with
this balance, shoreline and water areas with unique attributes for speciﬁc long-term
uses such as commercial, residential, industrial, water, wildlife, ﬁsheries, recreational
and open space shall be identiﬁed and reserved.

Policies

   1. Uses in shorelines and water areas shall be allowed in the following priority order:
      a. water-dependent uses;


359                                                               S HORELINE M ASTER P ROGRAM
                                      CLARK2045
       b. water-related uses; and
       c. water-enjoyment uses.

   2. Uses, activities and facilities should be located on shorelines in such a manner as to:
      a. Retain or improve the quality of shoreline ecological function;
      b. Respect the property rights of others;
      c. Ensure that proposed shoreline uses do not create risk or harm to neighboring or
         downstream properties; and
      d. Preserve and/or restore, to the maximum reasonable extent, the shoreline's natural
         features and functions in conjunction with any redevelopment or revitalization project.

   3. The following are encouraged in shoreline areas:
      a. Uses that enhance their speciﬁc areas or employ innovative features for purposes
           consistent with this program;
      b. The redevelopment of any area not suitable for preservation of natural features, based
           on its shoreline designation, with an emphasis on public access;
      c. Master planning for large sites or projects;
      d. Shared uses and joint use facilities in shoreline developments; and
      e. Uses that allow for or incorporate restoration of shoreline areas that are degraded as a
           result of past activities or events.

   4. Uses proposed on lands adjacent to but outside of immediate shoreline jurisdiction should
      be consistent with the intent of this Program and should not adversely impact shoreline
      ecological functions.


T R A N S P O R T A T I ON , U T I L IT I E S & I N S T I T U T I ON A L F A C I L IT I E S

GOAL
The goal for transportation, utilities and institutional facilities is to provide for these
facilities in shoreline areas without adverse eﬀects on existing shoreline use and
development or shoreline ecological functions and/or processes.

Policies

   1. Locate institutional facilities, utilities and circulation systems that are not shoreline-
      dependent outside of the shoreline jurisdiction to the maximum extent possible to reduce
      interference with either natural shoreline ecological functions or other appropriate
      shoreline uses.

   2. Provide safe, reasonable and adequate circulation systems to shorelines where routes will
      have the least possible adverse effect on shoreline ecological function and existing
      ecological systems, while contributing to the visual enhancement of the shoreline.




S HORELINE M ASTER P ROGRAM                                                                   360
                                      CLARK2045
   3. Protect, manage and enhance those characteristics of shoreline transportation corridors
      that are unique or have historic signiﬁcance or aesthetic quality for the beneﬁt and
      enjoyment of the public.

   4. Devote roads within the shoreline jurisdiction to low volume local access routes and
      shoreline public access.

   5. Encourage alternate modes of travel and provide multiple-use transportation corridors
      where compatible if shoreline transportation development is necessary.

   6. Locate utility and transportation corridors to avoid creating barriers between adjacent
      uplands and the shoreline and to harmonize with the topography and other natural
      characteristics of the shoreline.

   7. When new utility and transportation facilities are developed in the shoreline jurisdiction,
      protect, enhance and encourage development of physical and visual shoreline public
      access.

   8. Where feasible, relocate existing utility and transportation facilities, such as transmission
      lines, rail lines, or freeways that limit public shoreline access or other shoreline uses and
      convert such rights-of-way to new public access routes.

   9. Utilities and transportation facilities should be installed and facilities designed and located
      in a coordinated manner that protects the shorelands and water from contamination and
      degradation.


VIEWS & AESTHETICS

GOAL
The goal for views and aesthetics is to assure that the public’s opportunity to enjoy the
physical and aesthetic qualities of shorelines of the state, including views of the water,
is protected to the greatest extent feasible.

Policies

   1. Identify and encourage the protection of scenic vistas and areas where the shoreline has
      high aesthetic value.

   2. Encourage development within the shoreline area that provides visual and physical linkage
      to the shoreline and enhances the waterfront.

   3. Encourage development design that minimizes adverse impacts on views enjoyed by a
      substantial number of residences.




361                                                               S HORELINE M ASTER P ROGRAM
                                    CLARK2045
   4. Maintaining vegetated riparian areas to protect shoreline stability and shoreline ecological
      functions takes precedence over vegetation clearing to preserve or create views.


W A T E R Q U AL I T Y & Q U AN T I T Y

GOAL
The goal for water quality and quantity is to protect and enhance the quality and
quantity of the region’s water resources to ensure there is safe, clean water for the
public’s needs and enjoyment.

Policies

   1. Encourage the location, construction, operation and maintenance of shoreline uses,
      developments and activities to be focused on maintaining or improving the quality and
      quantity of surface and ground water over the long term.

   2. Minimize, through effective education, site planning and best management practices, the
      inadvertent release of chemicals, activities that cause erosion, stormwater runoff and
      faulty on-site sewage systems that could contaminate or cause adverse effects on water
      quality.

   3. Encourage the maintenance and restoration of appropriate vegetative buffers along
      surface waters to improve water temperature and reduces the adverse effects of erosion
      and runoff.




S HORELINE M ASTER P ROGRAM                                                                   362
CHAPTER
CLIMATE ELEMENT
                  14
                                        CLARK2045

CHAPTER 14
Climate Element

INTRODUCTION
Passage of HB 1181 during the 2023 Washington State legislative session added a climate change
and resiliency goal to the Growth Management Act (GMA):

        Climate change and resiliency. Ensure that comprehensive plans, development regulations, and
        regional policies, plans, and strategies under RCW 36.70A.210 and chapter 47.80 RCW adapt to
        and mitigate the effects of a changing climate; support reductions in greenhouse gas emissions
        and per capita vehicle miles traveled; prepare for climate impact scenarios; foster resiliency to
        climate impacts and natural hazards; protect and enhance environmental, economic, and human
        health and safety; and advance environmental justice. RCW 36.70A.020(14)

HB 1181 also added climate change and resiliency as a new mandatory element (Climate Element)
that needs to be included in Clark County’s comprehensive plan:

        A climate change and resiliency element that is designed to result in reductions in overall
        greenhouse gas emissions and that must enhance resiliency to and avoid the adverse impacts of
        climate change, which must include efforts to reduce localized greenhouse gas emissions and
        avoid creating or worsening localized climate impacts to vulnerable populations and
        overburdened communities. RCW 36.70A.070(9)

The purpose of this Climate Element is to implement 36.70A.070(9) and support Clark County
meeting its community’s greenhouse gas emissions reduction, vehicle miles traveled reduction,
resilience, and environmental justice goals and requirements.

This element of the Comprehensive Plan includes:

    •   Background information:
           o A summary of Growth Management Act Climate Element requirements and how
              the goals and policies in this chapter meet those requirements,
           o A summary of climate projections and impacts for the unincorporated county,
           o An inventory of greenhouse gas emissions,
           o Greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets,
           o Vehicle miles traveled (VMT) per capita information, and,
           o A summary of how the goals and policies in this chapter beneﬁt overburdened
              communities and improve environmental justice.




C LIMATE E LEMENT                                                                                   364
                                    CLARK2045
    •   Goals and policies to guide county climate action over the 20-year planning period to
        support a just and equitable transition to community-wide carbon neutrality by 2050 and
        to build the county’s resilience to the impacts of climate change.

The Climate Element is supported by referenced documents that provide additional information
used to develop this Element.


R E L A T I O N S H IP T O O T H E R E L E M EN T S O F T H E P L AN
Due to the cross-cutting nature of climate change and its intersection with other aspects of the
GMA framework, some climate information, goals, policies, and/or strategies are in other elements
of the comprehensive plan including:

   •    Chapter 1 – Land Use Element
   •    Chapter 2 – Housing Element
   •    Chapter 3 – Rural and Natural Resources Element
   •    Chapter 4 – Environment Element
   •    Chapter 5 – Transportation Element.
   •    Chapter 6 – Capital Facilities and Utilities Element
   •    Chapter 7 – Parks, Recreation, and Open Space Element
   •    Chapter 8 – Historic Element
   •    Chapter 9 – Economic Development Element

Climate goals and policies in dedicated sections of other comprehensive plan elements are noted
as addressing greenhouse gas emissions [GHG], resilience [RES], or both [GHG, RES]. A
comprehensive list of all climate goals and policies across the entire comprehensive plan is
documented in Appendix I.

BACKGROUND

G R O W T H M A N AG E M E N T A C T R EQ U I R E M EN T S
The GMA mandates that the Climate Element include actions the county can take over the 20-
year planning period to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, improve community resilience, and
beneﬁt overburdened communities that will be disproportionately affected by the compounding
environmental impacts and natural hazards due to climate change. Goals and policies must also be
consistent with best available science and scientiﬁcally credible climate projections and impact
scenarios. A summary of HB 1181 Climate Element Requirements, codiﬁed in RCW 36.70A.070,
are included in Table 14.1.




365                                                                          C LIMATE E LEMENT
                                        CLARK2045
Table 14.1. RCW 36.70A.070(9) Climate Element requirements.
 Focus            Climate Element Requirements in RCW 36.70A.070(9)
 Resilience       Requirement 1: Address natural hazards created or aggravated by climate change,
                  including sea level rise, landslides, ﬂooding, drought, heat, smoke, wildﬁre, and other
                  effects of changes to temperature and precipitation patterns.
 Resilience       Requirement 2: Identify, protect, and enhance natural areas to foster resiliency to
                  climate impacts, as well as areas of vital habitat for safe passage and species migration;
                  and
 Resilience       Requirement 3: Identify, protect, and enhance community resiliency to climate change
                  impacts, including social, economic, and built environment factors, that support
                  adaptation to climate impacts consistent with environmental justice.
 Greenhouse       Requirement 4: Result in reductions in overall greenhouse gas emissions generated by
 Gas Emissions    transportation and land use within the jurisdiction but without increasing greenhouse
 Reduction        gas emissions elsewhere in the state.
 Greenhouse       Requirement 5: Result in reductions in per capita vehicle miles traveled (VMT) within
 Gas Emissions    the jurisdiction but without increasing greenhouse gas emissions elsewhere in the
 Reduction        state; and
 Greenhouse       Requirement 6: Prioritize reductions that beneﬁt overburdened communities in order
 Gas Emissions    to maximize the cobeneﬁts of reduced air pollution and environmental justice.
 Reduction



HB 1181 also directs jurisdictions to make changes to other comprehensive plan elements. Those
changes are reﬂected in the element corresponding with the RCW 36.70A.070 requirement.

Documentation of how climate goals and policies in this chapter and other comprehensive plan
chapters meet the GMA Climate Element requirements in Table 14.1 are documented in Appendix
I.


C L I M A T E P R OJ E C T I O N S
The following table summarizes climate-related hazards facing unincorporated Clark County and
examples of the impacts expected in the community.




C LIMATE E LEMENT                                                                                           366
                                                CLARK2045
      Table 14.2 Climate hazard projections and examples of climate impacts under a “business as usual” emissions
      scenario called RCP 8.5 73, 74, 75, 76, 77
Climate         Metric                       2050          2080           Impact Examples
Hazard                                       Projection    Projection
Extreme         Annual days with a           + 35 days     +59 days       More hot days in summer will increase the risk of
Heat            humidex over 90°F                                         heat-related illness and may disrupt daily
                                                                          activities. Heat is expected to increase demand
                                                                          for water and electricity (air conditioning).
Drought         Late summer                  -20%          -23%           Less rain in summer means less water will be
                precipitation (Jul 15 –                                   available for human use when demand is high.
                Sep 15)                                                   This will also impact wildlife by reducing the
                                                                          amount of water in lakes and streams.
Wildﬁre         Annual days with high        +8 days       Not            Hotter, drier conditions increase the potential for
                ﬁre danger74                               available      wildﬁre, which may burn near populated areas,
                                                                          causing evacuations and property damage.
Wildﬁre         While there is no metric     Not           Not            Wildﬁre smoke can damage human health and
smoke           for speciﬁcally predicting   available     available      disrupt daily activities.
                smoke, likelihood of
                smoke events increases
                as wildﬁres become
                more common in
                western states and
                beyond.
Extreme         Total annual                 +8%           +10%           Heavy rains can overwhelm drainage systems,
Precipitation   precipitation                                             collapse roadways, make driving unsafe, and lead
                                                                          to landslides and ﬂoods. Rainstorms may bring
                                                                          strong winds that down trees or powerlines.
                                                                          Though less rain is expected in summer, more is
                                                                          expected in other seasons.




      73
         Source: Raymond, C., M. Rogers, 2022. Climate Mapping for a Resilient Washington. Prepared by the
      Climate Impacts Group, University of Washington, Seattle and Research Data & Computing Services,
      University of Idaho, Moscow. Accessed at: https://data.cig.uw.edu/climatemapping/
      74
         Source: National Ocean & Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Sea Level Rise Viewer.
      75
         The humidex is a measure of experienced heat conditions and takes into consideration both temperature
      and humidity (deﬁnition source: Climate Mapping for a Resilient Washington webtool).
      76
         A high ﬁre danger day is a day in which 100-hour fuel moisture is less than the historical 20th percentile
      (deﬁnition source: Climate Mapping for a Resilient Washington webtool).
      77
         A heavy precipitation day is the maximum daily precipitation that occurs with the 2-year storm, or on
      average once every two years (deﬁnition source: Climate Mapping for a Resilient Washington webtool).




      367                                                                                     C LIMATE E LEMENT
                                              CLARK2045
Climate          Metric                    2050          2080          Impact Examples
Hazard                                     Projection    Projection
Flooding         Peak streamﬂow for        +1-31%        +4-42%        Heavy rains cause ﬂooding that may inundate
                 streams and rivers                                    homes, businesses, roads, and agricultural areas,
                                                                       leading to costly property damage and health
                                                                       impacts. Stream/river ﬂooding can harm salmon
                                                                       and other aquatic species, create streambank
                                                                       erosion, and damage the quality of wildlife
                                                                       habitat.
Landslides       Intensity of heavy        +11%          +19%          Heavy precipitation increases the risk of
                 precipitation events75                                landslides by saturating the ground and loosening
                                                                       soil. Landslides damage natural areas, buildings,
                                                                       and infrastructure in their path. Debris may block
                                                                       roads, pollute waterways, and displace people
                                                                       living nearby.
Sea level rise   See ﬂooding information   See           See           Sea level rise is projected to affect Clark County
                 above                     ﬂooding       ﬂooding       indirectly, by producing inland tidal ﬂooding on
                                           information   information   some county river and stream segments. This
                                           above         above         impact is included in the ﬂooding information
                                                                       further above in this table.


       A comprehensive exploration of climate projections and impacts was conducted in development of
       this element following the Department of Commerce Intermediate Climate Element Guidance.
       Climate impact exploration is documented in a series of Climate Element workbooks.

       CLIMATE HAZARD INTERACTIONS
       Hazards are often connected. For example, dry conditions caused by heat and drought increase
       wildﬁre risk, while extreme precipitation can lead to ﬂooding and landslides.

       SOCIAL FACTORS AND CLIMATE IMPACTS
       Hazards do not impact people and places equally. Some people are more exposed to certain
       hazards. For instance, someone who works outside will likely be more exposed to extreme heat
       than someone who works indoors with air conditioning. Some people are more sensitive to certain
       hazards. For instance, a community member with asthma is extra sensitive to smoke and a
       community member with cardiovascular disease is extra sensitive to heat. Adaptive capacity, or
       how well someone will cope with impacts, can be impacted by factors like income, social networks,
       and insurance. Since the impacts of climate hazards are not experienced evenly across the county,
       different groups of people feel the effects more than others.

       Populations vulnerable to climate impacts in Clark County: RCW 36.70A.030 provides deﬁnitions
       for vulnerable populations and overburdened communities. To supplement these deﬁnitions, Clark
       County Public Health conducted research and wrote a memo on Clark County Communities
       Overburdened by Climate Exposures. The memo includes ﬁndings from a literature review to
       identify populations that are most impacted by, overburdened, or vulnerable to climate impacts.


       C LIMATE E LEMENT                                                                                    368
                                           CLARK2045
Almost all sources noted vulnerability to climate exposures being speciﬁc to geography, age,
and/or social determinants of health. Many climate-vulnerable or overburdened communities may
also be environmental justice communities or populations who have been systemically
marginalized, underinvested in, or discriminated against. Further, social identity is intersectional –
meaning individuals can belong to multiple groups that can compound climate exposure risk or
factors impacting adaptive capacity to climate events. Overall, the literature surfaced the
following priority populations around climate and health:

     •   Communities of color
     •   Tribal and Indigenous populations
     •   Low-income populations
     •   People with disabilities, chronic illnesses, or existing health conditions
     •   Infants and children
     •   Pregnant people
     •   Older adults
     •   Migrant farm workers
     •   Other occupational groups, including outdoor workers, ﬁrst responders, or indoor workers
         without air conditioning
     •   Unhoused or unsheltered populations
     •   People with Limited English Proﬁciency (LEP)
     •   Some immigrant and refugee populations, including undocumented immigrants or recent
         immigrants
     •   Populations with other social or geographical vulnerabilities (e.g., people with low-
         educational attainment, renters, historically “red-lined” communities, urban, rural,
         vulnerably housed populations, people who are unemployed, areas with poor
         infrastructure, etc.)

The following table provides examples of populations more exposed or sensitive to the impacts of
climate hazards.


Table 14.3 Examples of populations more exposed or sensitive to impacts from climate hazards 78, 79
 Climate Hazard              Examples of populations more exposed or sensitive to hazard impacts
 Extreme Heat                People living outside
 Extreme Heat                People with no air conditioning access




78
   Source: Raymond, C., M. Rogers, 2022. Climate Mapping for a Resilient Washington. Prepared by the
Climate Impacts Group, University of Washington, Seattle and Research Data & Computing Services,
University of Idaho, Moscow. Accessed at: https://data.cig.uw.edu/climatemapping/
79
   Source: 2023 Clark County Natural Hazard Mitigation Plan, Volume 1




369                                                                                       C LIMATE E LEMENT
                                        CLARK2045
 Climate Hazard          Examples of populations more exposed or sensitive to hazard impacts
 Extreme Heat            People with certain pre-existing health conditions. For instance, certain medical
                         conditions may be exacerbated by excessive heat, resulting in medical
                         emergencies. Power outages can be life threatening to those depending on
                         electricity for life support
 Extreme Heat            Children
 Extreme Heat            Older adults
 Extreme Heat            People who work outside
 Extreme Heat            People who live or spend time in areas with a lot of paved surfaces, little tree
                         canopy or shade, and are a far distance from water bodies.
 Drought                 Farming community
 Drought                 Forestry community
 Drought                 People reliant on well water, particularly in the rural area. (Note: There is a need to
                         understand more about rural water supply in Clark County and who in particular is
                         most vulnerable.)
 Wildﬁre                 People living in the wildland-urban interface and areas with high wildﬁre risk
                         historically
 Wildﬁre                 People who work or spend time in resource lands, such as loggers and hikers
 Wildﬁre                 People ﬁghting ﬁres and ﬁrst responders
 Wildﬁre                 People who are not able to evacuate risk areas quickly, such as older populations
                         or those with access and functional needs
 Wildﬁre Smoke           People with pre-existing health conditions like respiratory and cardiovascular
                         diseases
 Wildﬁre Smoke           People who work outside or are unsheltered
 Wildﬁre Smoke           People with inadequate indoor air ﬁltration systems
 Wildﬁre Smoke           People living near or downwind from wildﬁres
 Wildﬁre Smoke           Children
 Wildﬁre Smoke           Older adults
 Extreme Precipitation   People forced to be outdoors or traveling on roads during storms and heavy
                         precipitation
 Extreme Precipitation   Power outages can be life threatening to those depending on electricity for life
                         support
 Extreme Precipitation   Unsheltered population
 Extreme Precipitation   Police, ﬁre, and medical personnel responding to calls
 Flooding                Populations living in low-lying areas, current ﬂoodplains or regulatory ﬂood zones
                         are expected to be more exposed to riverine and/or tidal ﬂooding
 Flooding                People who have barriers to evacuating and coping with the aftermath of ﬂoods,
                         such as people who don’t drive or are economically disadvantaged
 Flooding                Exposure to urban ﬂooding from heavy precipitation will depend on factors such as
                         the amount of paved/impervious surfaces and the capacity and function of the
                         stormwater drainage system
 Landslides              People residing in a known landslide risk area
 Landslides              Populations living on or at the base of sloped terrain -- especially unstable slopes



C LIMATE E LEMENT                                                                                       370
                                      CLARK2045
 Climate Hazard           Examples of populations more exposed or sensitive to hazard impacts
 Landslides               People who live or work in areas where transportation corridors are vulnerable to
                          landslide damage



The county has risk and vulnerability information for some climate hazards and high risk people
and places. For instance, the Clark Regional Natural Hazard Mitigation Plan includes some risk and
vulnerability information for ﬂoods, landslides, wildland ﬁre, severe weather, and drought. Since
heat has historically not been a common natural hazard in the Paciﬁc Northwest, in 2024, Clark
County Community Planning conducted vulnerability and risk assessments on the vulnerability of
healthy and safe populations to extreme heat and the vulnerability of streams to extreme heat,
following the Department of Commerce Climate Element Intermediate Guidance. Clark County
Public Health also lead a heat mapping campaign in 2024 which produced high resolution heat
maps for urban areas in the county. WA Department of Health published an Environmental Health
Disparities map which shows the relative burden of census tracts within the county based on 25
socioeconomic and environmental factors. While the county has examples such as these that
provide local risk and vulnerability information, future data collection and analysis will be needed
to address gaps in the data, and to develop a deeper understanding to support high risk
community members as the county’s climate changes.

The climate hazard projections, impacts, vulnerability and risk data described above served as the
best available science used to frame discussions with project advisory groups and members of the
public and to generate goals and policies that would improve resilience to climate hazard impacts
applicable to the county.


G R E E N H O U S E G A S E M I S S I O N S I N VE N T O R Y
Clark County completed a Community Greenhouse Gas Inventory for Calendar Year 2022 in July
2024. The inventory estimates the greenhouse gas emissions associated with the geographic
boundaries of Clark County and represents Clark County’s carbon footprint. It provides a baseline
for future greenhouse gas emissions tracking for the climate element of the comprehensive plan.
This inventory can be used to better understand how different sectors impact emissions. The
inventory will help provide context to evaluate future greenhouse gas reduction (also known as
mitigation) strategies and to inform further investment in community-level climate mitigation
work and regional efforts with public agencies, utilities, nonproﬁt partners, and the business
community.

Table 14.3 summarizes unincorporated Clark County’s greenhouse gas emissions by sector.
Additional details are provided in the county’s Greenhouse Gas Inventory Report.




371                                                                                C LIMATE E LEMENT
                                           CLARK2045
Table 14.3: Unincorporated Clark County 2022 greenhouse gas emissions 80, 81, 82
 Emissions          % Local       2022          2022         2022 Total     2022        2022        2022
 Sector             Emissions     Urban         Rural        Emissions      Urban       Rural       Total
                                  Emissions     Emissions    (MT CO 2 e)    Emissions   Emissions   Emissions
                                  (MT           (MT                         Per         Per         Per
                                  CO 2 e)       CO 2 e)                     Capita      Capita      Capita
                                                                            (MT         (MT         (MT
                                                                            CO 2 e)     CO 2 e)     CO 2 e)
 Transportation     36%           348,541       188,115      536,656        2.0         2.7         2.2
 Building           36%           326,007       202,107      528,115        1.9         2.9         2.2
 Energy
 Agriculture,       21%           N/A           301,743      301,743        N/A         4.4         1.3
 Forestry, &
 Land Use
 Industrial         5%            48,556        19,659       68,215         0.3         0.3         0.3
 Process &
 Product Use
 Solid Waste &      2%            19,906        13,737       33,643         0.1         0.2         0.1
 Wastewater
 Imported           N/A           1,810,221     772,265      2,582,486      10.6        11.1        10.7
 Emissions
 Purchased          N/A           -2,871        -1,162       -4,033         -0.02       -0.02       -0.02
 Offsets
 Total Local        100%          743,011       725,360      1,468,371      4.3         10.5        6.1
 Emissions
 Total Local +      N/A           2,553,232     1,497,625    4,050,857      14.9        21.6        16.8
 Imported
 Emissions



The largest sources of local communitywide greenhouse gas emissions in each sector include:

     •   Transportation: gasoline and diesel
     •   Building energy: electricity and natural gas
     •   Agriculture, forestry, and land use: forest loss and livestock
     •   Industrial process and product use: refrigerants
     •   Solid waste and wastewater: landﬁlled solid waste and septic systems



80
   Source: Clark County Community Greenhouse Gas Inventory for Calendar Year 2022, July 2024
81
  MT CO2e stands for metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent. There are many greenhouse gases, and some
have a greater impact than others. To account for this, the impact of each gas is documented relative to
carbon dioxide, measured in metric tons.
82
   Numbers reﬂect market-based accounting for electricity.




C LIMATE E LEMENT                                                                                         372
                                         CLARK2045
The largest sources of Clark County operations greenhouse gas emissions include:

    •   Building energy: natural gas and electricity
    •   Solid waste and wastewater: county-owned landﬁlls
    •   Transportation: on-road and off-road ﬂeet vehicles and equipment, employee commuting

County operations emissions information is based on a WA Department of Commerce publication
called the Clark County 2022 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Analysis.

The greenhouse gas emissions inventory data described above served as the best available science
used to frame discussions with project advisory groups and members of the public and to generate
goals and policies that would reduce emissions from major emissions sources in each sector. The
inventory was also a key input in forecasting emissions reduction potential of policies.


G R E E N H O U S E G A S E M I S S I O N S R E D U C T I O N T A R G ET S
Department of Commerce Climate Element Intermediate Guidance guides local jurisdictions to
align greenhouse gas emissions reductions with the statewide target of net-zero local emissions
by 2050. Jurisdictions may choose to set greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets more
ambitious than the statewide target. Table 14.4 outlines Clark County’s targets to reach net-zero.

Table 14.4. Unincorporated Clark County greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets.
 Year                                % Reduction from Baseline Local      Local Emissions (MT CO 2 e)
                                     Emissions
 2022                                Baseline                             1,468,371
 2030                                80%                                  293,674
 2035                                87.5%                                183,546
 2040                                95% (net zero)                       73,419



V E H I C L E M IL E S T R A V E L E D (VMT) P E R C AP I T A
Clark County reviewed available VMT information to support development of Climate Element
policies and coordinated with the Regional Transportation Council (RTC) and cities on pursuing
regional VMT reduction monitoring methodology in alignment with Washington State
Department of Transportation guidance. Chapter 5 – Transportation Element includes
background VMT information and most of the VMT reduction related goals and policies.


P R I O R IT I Z I N G A C T I O N S T O B EN EF I T O V ER B U R D E N E D
C O M M U N I T I E S & I M P R O V E E N V IR O N M E N T AL J U S T I C E
HB 1181 established environmental justice requirements and deﬁnitions related to the climate
change element in RCW 36.70A. In general, the legislation emphasizes that planning and policy


373                                                                                   C LIMATE E LEMENT
                                      CLARK2045
decisions related to climate change do not impact us all in the same way and the legislation
requires that climate element policies beneﬁt community members most vulnerable to the
impacts of climate change.

To develop this Climate Element, Clark County used a layered approach for meeting
environmental justice requirements and incorporating environmental justice into the public
process. Two key tools in the county’s approach included:

   •   Environmental Justice Coalition. Clark County convened a group of 15 community-based
       organizations who serve overburdened communities or vulnerable populations in Clark
       County to help the county meet public engagement and environmental justice
       requirements of the GMA. The 15 organizations contracted with the county to facilitate
       the meaningful involvement of populations most impacted by climate impacts and hazards.
       A synthesis of Environmental Justice Coalition engagement was published in Phase 1-4
       Community Engagement Summaries for the county’s Climate Project. Three members of
       this coalition also served on a Community Advisory Group, which represented a wide
       range of interests and used a consensus-based process to develop recommendations for
       the Climate Element.
   •   Equity lens. The Environmental Justice Coalition guided development of an equity and
       environmental justice lens (included in Appendix I) to review draft Climate Element goals
       and policies. The three overarching questions that guided analysis of policy concepts were:
           o Who is most impacted by this issue or decision? (positively or negatively)
           o What does the data tell us? (consider qualitative and quantitative data)
           o What are the ways in which a policy recommendation could be modiﬁed to enhance
               positive impacts or reduce negative impacts?
       All draft Climate Element policies were reviewed by the Environmental Justice Coalition
       through the equity lens and project staff incorporated the group’s feedback into
       subsequent versions of the policies. Overarching environmental justice policies were also
       written in collaboration with the Environmental Justice Coalition to capture recurring
       themes that emerged across multiple policies through the equity lens policy review.



GOALS & POLICIES
Goals and policies are noted either as helping achieve greenhouse gas reduction [GHG], resilience
[RES], or both [GHG, RES]. As mentioned earlier in this chapter, a comprehensive list of all climate
goals and policies across the entire comprehensive plan and how they meet the requirements of
RCW 36.70A.070(9) is documented in Appendix I.


14.1       C O U N T Y W I D E P L A N N IN G P OL I C I ES
             14.1.1    The county and the cities of Battle Ground, Camas, Ridgeﬁeld, Vancouver,
                       and Washougal shall cooperate to reduce greenhouse gas emissions,


C LIMATE E LEMENT                                                                               374
                             CLARK2045
               reduce vehicle miles traveled per capita, and improve environmental justice
               through development of a greenhouse gas emissions reduction subelement
               in each local government’s respective comprehensive plan, and its related
               development regulations that identify the actions the jurisdiction will take
               during the planning cycle that will:

               •   Result in reductions in overall greenhouse gas emissions generated by
                   transportation and land use within the jurisdiction but without
                   increasing greenhouse gas emissions elsewhere in the state or region;
               •   Result in reductions in per capita vehicle miles traveled within the
                   jurisdiction but without increasing greenhouse gas emissions elsewhere
                   in the state or region; and
               •   Prioritize reductions that beneﬁt overburdened communities in order
                   to maximize the cobeneﬁts of reduced air pollution and environmental
                   justice. [GHG]

               Greenhouse gas reduction subelements shall be consistent with Chapter
               36.70A, Department of Commerce guidelines, and supported by
               scientiﬁcally credible projections and scenarios. [GHG]

      14.1.2   Greenhouse gas reduction subelements shall be developed with an overall
               target of reaching net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 in alignment
               with the statewide greenhouse gas emissions reductions set forth in RCW
               70A.45.020(1) and in accordance with all applicable laws. Individual
               jurisdictions may choose to set greenhouse gas reduction targets more
               ambitious than the statewide goals. Jurisdictions shall use a consistent
               methodology for measuring greenhouse gas emissions reduction progress
               over time using each jurisdiction’s individual 2022 (or 2023 inventory for
               the City of Vancouver) greenhouse gas emissions inventory for baseline
               greenhouse gas emissions values and establishment of the scientiﬁcally
               credible inventory protocol to use moving forward to track progress. [GHG]

      14.1.3   Each jurisdiction with a greenhouse gas reduction subelement shall
               collaborate to develop vehicle miles traveled per capita reduction targets
               and methodology for monitoring vehicle miles traveled per capita over time
               in collaboration with the Regional Transportation Council. Each
               jurisdiction’s greenhouse gas reduction subelement shall include vehicle
               miles traveled per capita reduction goal(s) and policies in alignment with
               regional vehicle miles traveled per capita reduction planning initiatives.
               [GHG]




375                                                                    C LIMATE E LEMENT
                                   CLARK2045
           14.1.4   Each jurisdiction with a greenhouse gas reduction subelement should set 5-
                    year incremental greenhouse gas reduction and vehicle miles traveled per
                    capita reduction objectives or targets. [GHG]

           14.1.5   Each jurisdiction with a greenhouse gas reduction subelement will provide
                    progress reports to the Department of Commerce every ﬁve years
                    according to the Department of Commerce progress report guidelines
                    adopted under RCW 36.70A.130. [GHG]

           14.1.6   Each jurisdiction with a greenhouse gas reduction subelement should
                    coordinate with the Southwest Clean Air Agency (SWCAA) on reducing air
                    pollution. [GHG]

           14.1.7   The county and each municipality shall cooperate to equitably enhance
                    resiliency to, and avoid or substantially reduce the adverse impacts of,
                    climate change in human communities and ecological systems through
                    goals, policies, and programs consistent with the best available science and
                    scientiﬁcally credible climate projections and impact scenarios that
                    moderate or avoid harm, enhance the resiliency of natural and human
                    systems, and enhance beneﬁcial opportunities through development of a
                    resiliency subelement in each local government’s respective
                    comprehensive plan, consistent with Chapter 36.70A.

                    Speciﬁc goals, policies, and programs of the resiliency subelement must
                    include, but are not limited to, those designed to:

                    •   Identify, protect, and enhance natural areas and green infrastructure to
                        foster resiliency to climate impacts, as well as areas of vital habitat for
                        safe passage and species migration;
                    •   Identify, protect, and enhance community resiliency to climate change
                        impacts, including social, economic, and built environment factors, that
                        support adaptation to climate impacts consistent with environmental
                        justice; and
                    •   Address natural hazards created or aggravated by climate change,
                        including landslides, ﬂooding, drought, heat, smoke, wildﬁre, and other
                        effects of changes to temperature and precipitation patterns.

                    Each jurisdiction’s resiliency subelement must prioritize actions that
                    beneﬁt overburdened communities that will disproportionately suffer from
                    compounding environmental impacts and will be most impacted by natural
                    hazards due to climate change. [RES]

           14.1.8   The county and municipalities shall improve environmental justice in each
                    jurisdiction’s climate element consistent with the environmental justice


C LIMATE E LEMENT                                                                              376
                                       CLARK2045
                       deﬁnition and policy requirements in Chapter 36.70A, including meaningful
                       involvement with overburdened communities to identify policies that will
                       beneﬁt them. [GHG, RES]

             14.1.9    The county and municipalities shall work together in the development of
                       each jurisdiction’s climate element and implementation of climate
                       elements. [GHG, RES]

             14.1.10 The county and municipalities shall consult with the Cowlitz Indian Tribe in
                     the development of each jurisdiction’s climate element and implementation
                     of climate elements. [GHG, RES]


C O U N T Y 20- Y E AR P L A N N I N G P O L I C I E S

HEALTH AND WELL-BEING
In addition to the goals and policies listed in this chapter, see health & well-being related goals and
policies that intersect the Climate Element in Chapter 1 – Land Use Element, Chapter 2 - Housing
Element, Chapter 3 – Rural and Natural Resource Element, and Chapter 7 – Parks, Recreation, and
Open Space Element.

GOAL:
In accordance with all applicable laws, facilitate a just transition to net zero greenhouse
gas emissions and equitably enhance community and ecological resilience to climate
impacts. [GHG, RES]

14.2       Policies

           14.2.1      Implement Climate Element policies in alignment with following guiding
                       principles:

                       •   Evaluate who is most impacted by the issue or decision (positively or
                           negatively), what the data tells us (consider qualitative and quantitative
                           data), and what ways the recommended action could be modiﬁed to
                           enhance positive impacts or reduce negative impacts.
                       •   Prioritize engagement with communities vulnerable and at risk from
                           climate impacts.
                       •   Design engagement to align with the unique characteristics of
                           vulnerable populations that are at higher risk from climate impacts.
                       •   Directly limit harm, address past harm where possible, and be effective
                           at reducing greenhouse gas emissions and/or improving resilience.
                       •   Collaborate with communities and community organizations and
                           consult with Tribes (and seek funding necessary to support



377                                                                               C LIMATE E LEMENT
                                   CLARK2045
                        collaboration). Community organizations include, but are not limited to:
                        local non-governmental organizations and businesses, service
                        providers, faith based institutions, and partner government agencies.
                    •   Design projects to help communities meet their day-to-day needs and
                        build resilience in the face of climate impacts. Climate actions should
                        avoid creating harm to vulnerable populations by, for example,
                        compounding day-to-day ﬁnancial burdens or making climate impacts
                        worse.
                    •   Remove barriers to participation and to beneﬁts. Make climate projects,
                        programs, and their associated beneﬁts, easily accessible. Barriers to
                        participation include physical and non-physical barriers. Examples
                        include: access and safety challenges for people with certain physical
                        health conditions or developmental disabilities, language barriers,
                        ﬁnancial assistance program requirements, availability of food,
                        childcare, and transportation, and meeting time or location
                        convenience.
                    •   Provide culturally inclusive outreach and educational information in
                        multiple languages and formats with accurate translations.
                    •   Design educational opportunities for multiple audiences and ages and
                        seek opportunities to integrate county efforts with community
                        initiatives (i.e. cultural arts, youth, community organization, or school
                        programs).
                    •   Help create a healthier environment and community. [GHG, RES]

         14.2.2     Evaluate Comprehensive Growth Management Plan amendments, and
                    associated plans, policies, and development regulations with the primary
                    criteria of the climate element requirements in RCW 36.70A.070(9), where
                    proposed actions are evaluated for whether or not they:

                    a) result in a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions generated by
                       transportation and land use within unincorporated Clark County
                       without increasing greenhouse gas emissions elsewhere in the state;
                    b) result in reductions in per capita vehicle miles traveled within
                       unincorporated Clark County without increasing greenhouse gas
                       emissions elsewhere in the state;
                    c) enhance resiliency to climate change impacts in human communities
                       and ecological systems; and
                    d) beneﬁt overburdened communities by maximizing the cobeneﬁts of:
                       reduced air pollution, environmental justice, and reduced disparities
                       from compounding environmental impacts. [GHG, RES]




C LIMATE E LEMENT                                                                           378
                                   CLARK2045
         14.2.3     The following environmental justice related goal and policies in the Chapter
                    1 – Land Use Element help support this goal and are also considered
                    Climate Element policies: 1.6, 1.6.1, 1.6.2, 1.6.3, 1.6.4, 1.6.5. [GHG, RES]

GOAL:
Ensure the most vulnerable county residents do not bear disproportionate impacts
from climate change by protecting community health and well-being from the impacts
of climate-exacerbated hazards and prioritizing focus on overburdened communities.
[RES]

14.3     Policies

         14.3.1     Implement policies under this goal in collaboration with community-based
                    organizations and in consultation with Tribes to engage with vulnerable
                    communities to design and implement approaches that meet overburdened
                    community needs, including but not limited to: linguistically and culturally
                    appropriate information; safe options for undocumented residents;
                    approaches for recent immigrants or refugees; approaches for people who
                    rent housing or do not have housing; approaches for people with physical or
                    developmental disabilities, physical or mental health conditions that put
                    them at higher risk to climate impacts; ensuring information is available in
                    key languages and through appropriate formats and platforms, etc. [RES]

         14.3.2     Evaluate and implement habitat reduction and population control for
                    arthropod disease vectors (e.g., mosquitos and ticks) and zoonotic disease
                    reservoirs (e.g., rodents) using integrated pest-management methods.
                    Incentivize property managers to address pests and mold in housing, and to
                    manage indoor and outdoor pests without the use of toxic chemicals that
                    harm human or environmental health. [RES]

         14.3.3     Promote ways to protect the health and wellbeing of outdoor workers
                    exposed to extreme heat and other climate-exacerbated hazards including,
                    but not limited to: compliance with Washington State (Labor & Industries)
                    legislation health and wellbeing protections related to severe weather and
                    providing training on ways to protect the health and wellbeing of outdoor
                    workers and indoor workers who lack access to cooling in extreme heat.
                    [RES]

         14.3.4     Improve access to resiliency and mitigation information by implementing a
                    hazard mitigation communication program (i.e., retro-ﬁt information, ﬁre-
                    wise strategies, etc.), in collaboration with partner agencies and schools, to
                    support public outreach and education as well as other climate action
                    items. Incorporate teaching how and where to sign-up for advisory alerts
                    related to hazards such as poor air quality/smoke, heat, etc. [RES]


379                                                                           C LIMATE E LEMENT
                                    CLARK2045
          14.3.5     Develop a comprehensive data- and community-based assessment
                     framework to identify the needs of people who are most vulnerable to
                     climate change-exacerbated hazards (e.g., people who are houseless,
                     elderly, undocumented, socially isolated, have health conditions or
                     disabilities that put them at higher risk to climate impacts, or live in high-
                     risk areas) and take action to improve the adaptive capacity and resilience
                     of at-risk communities. [RES]

          14.3.6     Develop resilience hubs — community-serving facilities that are designed
                     to support and connect residents, coordinate communication, distribute
                     resources, and reduce carbon pollution while enhancing quality of life.

                     •   Resilience hubs (or hubs) can be regularly open locations and/or
                         emergency centers during and after an extreme weather event or
                         emergency.
                     •   Collaborate with community organizations to develop hubs.
                     •   Prioritize establishing hubs in underserved and overburdened areas.
                     •   Establish a task force to help the county plan the resilience hub
                         network, such as identifying locations and critical hub needs.
                     •   Address the distinct hub needs in urban and rural areas.
                     •   Consider the location of hubs outside of hazard-prone areas and easily
                         accessible to the community.
                     •   Create spaces that feel safe, are linguistically and culturally inclusive,
                         and serve a full spectrum of ages, from youth to elders.
                     •   Hubs could serve many purposes to build community resilience and
                         design should be thoughtfully considered. For instance, hubs could
                         serve as places to organize community connection, skill-building,
                         reciprocity and mutual aid type initiatives in addition to connecting
                         with government-supported resources. [RES]

GOAL:
Establish and maintain on-going consultation with the Cowlitz Indian Tribe, regional
Tribal governments, and culturally-speciﬁc groups on climate resilience eﬀorts. [RES]

14.4      Policies

          14.4.1     Consult with the Cowlitz Indian Tribe, regional Tribal governments, and
                     culturally-speciﬁc groups on projects to identify important sites and
                     resources in the county that are threatened by impacts of climate change.
                     The county shall recognize and respect that Tribes may not wish to share
                     the location of certain sites and resources. [RES]




C LIMATE E LEMENT                                                                               380
                                    CLARK2045
          14.4.2     Consult with the Cowlitz Indian Tribe, regional Tribal governments, and
                     culturally-speciﬁc groups on projects to develop culturally appropriate
                     climate adaptation, community education, and emergency response
                     strategies. [RES]

          14.4.3     Ensure that cultural resources and practices — are resilient to the impacts
                     of climate change including signiﬁcant historic sites, culturally important
                     traditional foods such as salmon, and natural resources. Resources and sites
                     include those meaningful to the original inhabitants of Clark County. [RES]

GOAL:
Promote holistic and resilient local food economies. [RES]

14.5      Policies

          14.5.1     Expand local food security and the food-related economy to address
                     climate impacts by increasing access to healthy, affordable, pesticide-free
                     foods that can be sustainably produced under projected future climate
                     conditions. [RES]

          14.5.2     Take steps to preserve existing agriculture by prioritizing the infrastructure
                     that keeps the existing agriculture operationally sustainable, including
                     education, research, and technology, such as cold storage facilities,
                     development of programs that support food transportation, and
                     showcasing education, research and technology resources. [RES]

          14.5.3     Support relocation of food distribution nodes located in hazard-prone
                     areas to protect from future damage, repetitive and severe repetitive loss.
                     [RES]

          14.5.4     Establish sustainable and climate resilient "agricultural production" areas,
                     corridors, or neighborhood networks, to focus and coordinate food
                     transportation, distribution, and other resources. [GHG, RES]

          14.5.5     Develop a comprehensive food access and availability plan based on
                     “agricultural production” areas and local and regional food networks for
                     food sales and distribution, such as farmers' markets, farm stands, food
                     hubs, food banks, and neighborhood food pantries that can be easily
                     accessed throughout the county year-round and if there are climate
                     disruptions to food delivery systems. [RES]

          14.5.6     Promote and support public and private food-producing gardens, market
                     farms, and urban agriculture at homes, apartments, and community spaces
                     to improve reliability of food access during emergencies, severe weather,


381                                                                           C LIMATE E LEMENT
                                   CLARK2045
                    and throughout the year. Partner with Washington State University
                    Extension to encourage community participation. [RES]

         14.5.7     Develop and implement "The Right To Food" policies and strategies for
                    Clark County that support community-wide access to sufﬁcient nutritious
                    food. This right ensures equitable access to enough high quality food in the
                    county under a variety of climate emergency scenarios and year round.
                    [RES]

         14.5.8     Enhance food waste prevention and diversion programs throughout the
                    food system. Prioritize increasing food security for low-income and food-
                    insecure residents and supporting farmers. [GHG, RES]

         14.5.9     Collaborate with community partners on public education for household
                    and business food waste reduction strategies. Education should be
                    implemented in multiple languages, in multiple formats, and in culturally
                    inclusive ways in collaboration with schools and community organizations.
                    Approaches that are practical in multifamily housing complexes should be
                    addressed. [GHG]

         14.5.10    The following policies in Chapter 3 – Rural and Natural Resource Element
                    help support this goal and are also considered Climate Element policies:
                    3.1.1, 3.1.3, 3.1.5, 3.3.4, 3.5.1, 3.5.2, 3.5.6, and 3.5.9. [RES]

GOAL:
Promote holistic, regenerative, and sustainable agriculture and landscaping community-
wide that provides high quality food while reducing greenhouse gas emissions and
improving resilience to changing environmental conditions. [GHG, RES]

14.6     Policies

         14.6.1     Facilitate collaboration with community partners to provide support for
                    low- or zero-greenhouse gas emitting farming and landscaping equipment
                    rental, repair, and access, including equipment shares. [GHG]

         14.6.2     Seek funding for programmatic grants and incentives to reduce agriculture
                    and landscaping related greenhouse gas emissions associated with fertilizer
                    and amendments through use of natural fertilizers, improved fertilizer
                    management, use of native species in landscaping, and manure
                    management, such as promoting methane capture from manure. [GHG]

         14.6.3     Collaborate with partner agencies to expand community-wide education on
                    regenerative and sustainable agricultural practices, including: soil health,
                    carbon sequestration, cover crops, agro-forestry, permaculture, crop


C LIMATE E LEMENT                                                                           382
                                    CLARK2045
                     diversity, seasonal eating, water storage, and water conservation strategies,
                     etc. [GHG, RES]

          14.6.4     Reduce barriers to agriculture throughout Clark County such as by:
                     providing regenerative and sustainable agriculture education, increasing
                     access to urban agriculture (including urban farms, market and community
                     gardens), supporting farmer-friendly long-term leases and programs that
                     facilitate land purchases for new farmers, supporting incubator spaces,
                     promoting living wage agriculture jobs and farmer succession planning, and
                     other efforts as coordinated through the Clark County Agricultural
                     Advisory Commission. [GHG, RES]

          14.6.5     Support conservation programs, research, technical assistance, and
                     resources that provide direct or indirect ﬁnancial assistance to farmers,
                     whether they lease or own land, to implement best management practices
                     that address impacts of climate change. An example of this includes, but is
                     not limited to: helping farmers access relevant grants and small business
                     loans. [RES]

GOAL:
Connect outdoor recreation to public health. Improve access to green spaces, parks,
and recreational areas, which provide opportunities for physical activity, stress
reduction, and social connection, contributing to overall health and well-being, while
also mitigating urban heat island eﬀects and enhancing resilience to extreme weather
events. [RES]

14.7      Policies

          14.7.1     The following policies in Chapter 7 - Parks, Recreation, and Open Space
                     Element are also considered Climate Element policies: 7.3.1, 7.3.3, 7.3.4,
                     7.4.1, 7.4.2, 7.4.3, and 7.5.1. [RES]

GREEN JOBS
GOAL:
Promote long-term economic development and job generating activities that will
improve environmental quality and climate resilience. [GHG, RES]

14.8      Policies

          14.8.1     Support development of a local, diverse green workforce by facilitating
                     opportunities for "green jobs" with a focus on job-creation within
                     communities most impacted by climate hazards. Examples of green job
                     ﬁelds include, but are not limited to: designing, installing and maintaining


383                                                                            C LIMATE E LEMENT
                                       CLARK2045
                       green infrastructure or renewable/clean energy infrastructure; sustainable
                       building and landscaping; responding to severe weather events; urban and
                       rural ecosystem management; restoration; natural resource management;
                       stewardship; outdoor and environmental education; agriculture; and food
                       systems.

                       County green workforce development initiatives must:

                       •   Prioritize job programs for communities experiencing high barriers to
                           employment;
                       •   Be culturally and linguistically inclusive;
                       •   Be designed and implemented in collaboration with community based
                           organizations, businesses, and public-sector agencies;
                       •   Prioritize professional growth pathways, such as worker to owner; and
                       •   Consider the full range of options for how the county can help, including
                           but not limited to supporting or facilitating: apprenticeship programs,
                           "second chance" programs, training and skill development programs,
                           opportunities for reskilling, career counseling, grant programs to
                           support new innovative green business opportunities, etc. [GHG, RES]

           14.8.2      Support local businesses' efforts to bolster climate preparedness and
                       continuity of operations. Encourage continuing education, skills upgrading,
                       mentoring and lifelong learning programs suitable for large and small
                       employers. Prioritize support for businesses owned by members of
                       vulnerable populations and serving overburdened communities. [RES]

           14.8.3      Promote local economic, industrial, and residential development to support
                       a circular economy that increases demand for reused and recycled
                       materials and reduces demand for new raw materials and their embodied
                       carbon emissions. [GHG]

ECOLOGICAL STEWARDSHIP
In addition to the goals and policies listed in this chapter, see ecological stewardship related goals
and policies that intersect the Climate Element in Chapter 4 – Environment Element.

GOAL:
Protect and plant more trees in rural and urban areas and equitably increase tree
canopy cover through targeted planting and maintenance support. [GHG, RES]

14.9       Policies

           14.9.1      Implementation of policies under this goal must:




C LIMATE E LEMENT                                                                                 384
                              CLARK2045
               •   Be designed in collaboration with community partners such as
                   community based organizations, Tribes, and partner agencies;
               •   Include culturally inclusive and accessible community engagement;

                   Policies under this goal should:

               •   Link with other efforts, such as those related to job creation, workforce
                   development, conservation, and education initiatives; and
               •   Include opportunities for homeowners, landowners, and renters to
                   create habitat dispersal corridors and connectivity. [GHG, RES]

      14.9.2   Develop and adopt a tree plan and implementing ordinance to maximize
               planting and protection of trees in alignment with best practices and
               relevant state and federal laws.

               The tree plan must:

               •   Establish community-wide tree canopy cover targets and tree equity
                   goals.
               •   Include strategies to address tree loss from development and other site
                   altering activities, extreme heat, drought, wildﬁre, extreme
                   precipitation and storms, diseases, pathogens, pests, and other tree
                   stressors.
               •   Include sustainable strategies to build climate resilience, carbon
                   sequestration, ecosystem and watershed health.
               •   Prioritize beneﬁts to overburdened communities.
               •   Align with tree requirements in the county’s Phase 1 Municipal
                   Stormwater Permit and all applicable laws and regulations, including
                   but not limited to: RCW 76.09 Forest Practices Act and associated rules
                   and RCW 36.70A Growth Management Act and associated rules. [GHG,
                   RES]

      14.9.3   Expand and seek funding for tree planting, tree maintenance, invasive
               species management, and reforestation activities through both County-led
               and community-led activities. [GHG, RES]

      14.9.4   Ensure new tree plantings are the "right species" in the "right places."
               Prioritize planting diverse and resilient vegetation that provides building
               shading, and reduces heat in urban heat islands and overburdened
               communities, and removal of invasive species. "Right species" and "right
               place" is not prescriptive and can be deﬁned differently in different
               neighborhoods, etc. with community input. [GHG, RES]




385                                                                     C LIMATE E LEMENT
                                   CLARK2045
         14.9.5     Establish, enhance, and maintain policies that support diverse tree
                    plantings, greenspaces, and gardens in new urban and rural developments.
                    Examples of policy mechanisms could include: a conservation credit system
                    for developers; tree, habitat, or garden "banking" systems; conservation
                    easements or land trust approaches; cluster lot and planned unit
                    development approaches. Policies need to address both initial development
                    and long-term maintenance. [GHG, RES]

GOAL:
Increase, enhance, and protect County-owned plantings and greenspaces. [GHG, RES]

14.10    Policies

         14.10.1    Expand youth environmental volunteer opportunities and service learning
                    through tree planting and green space stewardship opportunities. These
                    programs must be available in multiple languages for multiple audiences
                    and ages and in multiple formats, culturally relevant and inclusive of the
                    county's diverse population. [GHG, RES]

         14.10.2    Enhance, expand, protect, and maintain County-owned greenspace and
                    tree canopy, while providing opportunities for community engagement and
                    stewardship around green space. Assess tree canopy on county-owned
                    properties and set tree canopy targets for county-owned green spaces.
                    Identify and plan to protect legacy forests in county owned spaces. Increase
                    plantings that provide shade in urban heat islands and overburdened
                    communities, help to stabilize soils, improve soil health, and sequester
                    carbon. Plant food forests in accessible, appropriate locations. [GHG, RES]

         14.10.3    In greenspace tree planting and restoration efforts, choose a diverse
                    selection of native drought- and pest-resistant trees, shrubs, perennials,
                    and grasses to support climate resilience; and remove invasive species.
                    Implement in collaboration with community based organizations and seek
                    opportunities to link with other efforts, such as those related to job
                    creation, workforce development, conservation, food security, and
                    education initiatives. [GHG, RES]

         14.10.4    The following Parks, Recreation, and Open Space Element policy is
                    considered a Climate Element policy that helps achieve this goal: 7.4.1.
                    [RES]

         14.10.5    Collaborate with schools, public and private community based
                    organizations to seek funding to expand educational awareness and
                    volunteer engagement opportunities to foster pride in and knowledge of



C LIMATE E LEMENT                                                                              386
                                   CLARK2045
                    the County system of parks and natural spaces. Develop programs that
                    teach the value of trees and natural areas, and about greenspace creation,
                    maintenance, and health. [GHG, RES]

GOAL:
Promote regenerative and sustainable forestry practices community-wide. [GHG]

14.11    Policies

         14.11.1    Expand the county forestry team and work with other local agency forestry
                    departments, universities, and community organizations to promote and
                    provide education on sustainable and ecosystem-based forestry practices,
                    stewardship, and maintenance in the urban and rural unincorporated areas,
                    including practices such as ﬁre management, salvage logging, biodiversity
                    conservation, invasive species and pest management, and edible forests,
                    etc. [GHG]

         14.11.2    Strongly advocate to the state legislature and Washington State
                    Department of Natural Resources to prohibit clear-cutting on forested
                    lands, protect legacy and old growth trees, and avoid the use of pesticides.
                    [GHG]

         14.11.3    Utilize the Washington State Department of Natural Resources
                    Reconveyance of State Forestlands and Trust Land Transfer programs
                    where possible. [GHG]

GOAL:
Improve public awareness of environmental topics including native plant varieties,
beneﬁts, and care; ecosystem functions; water quality and watershed functions; climate
science; conservation; human relationships to nature, and ways to reduce an
individual’s personal carbon footprint. [GHG, RES]

14.12    Policies

         14.12.1    Develop education programs targeting all communities and age groups,
                    from youth to the elderly, that build resilience by increasing understanding
                    of environmental processes, challenges, stewardship strategies, human-
                    nature connections such as impacts on mental health, and ways to reduce
                    an individual’s personal carbon footprint. County-sponsored education and
                    information programs should: use multiple methods to share information,
                    such as social media and billboards, be culturally and linguistically inclusive,
                    and involve collaboration with community partners and schools. [GHG,
                    RES]


387                                                                            C LIMATE E LEMENT
                                        CLARK2045
TRANSPORTATION AND LAND USE
In addition to the goals and policies listed in this chapter, see transportation and land use related
goals and policies that intersect the Climate Element in Chapter 1 – Land Use Element, Chapter 2
– Housing Element, Chapter 4 – Environment Element, and Chapter 5 – Transportation Element.

GOAL:
Reduce vehicle trips and miles viewed through an equity lens within the county through
changes to land use, transportation infrastructure (transit, walking, bicycling, rolling),
and commuting options/modes. [GHG]

14.13      Policies

           14.13.1     The following Land Use, Housing, and Transportation Element policies
                       support reducing vehicle miles traveled and are also considered Climate
                       Element policies: 1.3.2, 1.3.3, 1.4.1, 1.4.2, 1.4.3, 1.4.4, 1.4.5, 1.4.6, 1.4.7,
                       1.4.8, 1.4.9, 1.4.10, 1.4.11, 2.1.3, 2.1.4, 2.1.5, 2.1.6, 2.2.3, 2.2.7, 2.2.8, 2.3.2,
                       5.1.3, 5.1.4, 5.2.2, 5.2.3, 5.2.4, 5.2.5, 5.3.1, 5.3.2, 5.3.4, 5.3.5, 5.3.7, 5.3.8,
                       5.3.9, 5.3.10, 5.3.11, 5.3.12, 5.3.13, 5.4.2, 5.5.6, 5.6.2, 5.6.3, 5.7.1, 5.7.2,
                       5.7.3, 5.7.4, 5.7.5, 5.7.6, 5.7.7, 5.10.3, and 5.10.4. [GHG, RES]

GOAL:
Reduce emissions for County-owned vehicles to zero. [GHG]

14.14      Policies

           14.14.1     Enforce green ﬂeet policies to convert County-owned vehicles and
                       equipment to electric, hybrid, or hydrogen (replace as phasing out old
                       vehicles/equipment), and encourage carpooling for County staff on ofﬁcial
                       business. Until the ﬂeet is fully converted, the County shall replace diesel
                       fuel stations with renewable diesel. [GHG]

           14.14.2     Strengthen the county green ﬂeet policy so that, as county funded vehicles
                       reach their normal replacement point, zero-emission vehicles are used
                       whenever they can meet the operational requirements and are
                       economically practicable, followed by hybrid vehicles when they cannot,
                       and conventional vehicles only when necessary. When a lower-emission
                       option that meets these criteria is available but is not selected, the reason
                       shall be documented and included in the annual update to Council. [GHG]

           14.14.3     Maintain a prioritized approach to expanding zero-emission infrastructure
                       at appropriate county facilities, with measurable progress reported
                       annually. Identifying and pursuing federal, state, utility, and other outside
                       grant opportunities for zero-emission infrastructure and zero-emission


C LIMATE E LEMENT                                                                                        388
                                    CLARK2045
                    ﬂeet vehicles shall be a high priority for the county staff member
                    responsible for identifying and pursuing grant opportunities, with
                    particular emphasis on securing outside funding for the charging
                    infrastructure necessary to support continued ﬂeet conversion. [GHG]

         14.14.4    Install publicly accessible electric vehicle (EV) chargers at county
                    properties with publicly available parking and as practicable. [GHG]

GOAL:
Encourage resilient development within the unincorporated urban growth area and
away from areas that are prone to climate-related hazards such as ﬂooding and wildﬁre.
[RES]

14.15    Policies

         14.15.1    Incorporate climate resilience goals, policies, and regulations (as
                    appropriate) into all Clark County planning documents (Clark County
                    Natural Hazard Mitigation Plan, Shoreline Master Program, Parks,
                    Recreation & Open Space Plan, etc.). [RES]

         14.15.2    Plan and build new facilities, utilities, and infrastructure projects to avoid or
                    withstand ﬂooding, wildﬁres, landslides and associated climate impacts
                    (e.g., changing ﬂoodplains). [RES]

         14.15.3    Where appropriate, support retroﬁtting, relocation, or acquisition from
                    willing property owners of structures located in hazard-prone areas to
                    protect structures from future damage, with repetitive and severe
                    repetitive loss as a priority. Seek to leverage partnerships within the
                    planning area in these pursuits. [RES]

         14.15.4    The following policies also help support this goal: 1.5.1, 1.5.2, 4.2.4, 4.2.5,
                    4.2.8, 4.2.9, 4.12, 4.12.1, and 4.12.2. [RES]

         14.15.5    Work with Clark Public Utilities and ﬁre districts to develop regulations
                    that welcome grid scale batteries. [GHG, RES]

BUILDINGS AND ENERGY
GOAL:
Promote energy eﬃcient buildings. [GHG, RES]

14.16    Policies

         14.16.1    Policies under this goal must prioritize:



389                                                                             C LIMATE E LEMENT
                                   CLARK2045
                    •   Helping low-income and overburdened households and businesses
                        improve energy efﬁciency to save money and improve indoor comfort
                        and health;
                    •   Removing barriers to access beneﬁts by making initiatives accessible to
                        people living in unincorporated Clark County regardless of language
                        spoken, immigration status, disability, or whether someone rents or
                        owns a household dwelling, building, or commercial space. (An example
                        of removing a barrier includes providing an appliance discount instead
                        of an approach requiring payment in full before receiving a rebate); and
                    •   Careful coordination with utility partners to support and complement
                        existing programs and avoid duplication of efforts. [GHG, RES]

         14.16.2    Collaborate with local utilities and partner agencies to promote free and
                    low cost options for energy audits and performance standards for
                    commercial and residential properties. [GHG]

         14.16.3    Collaborate with local utilities and community based organizations to
                    support programs that provide weatherization, energy efﬁciency upgrades,
                    and heat capture for commercial and residential buildings. [GHG, RES]

         14.16.4    Incentivize energy efﬁcient building design, including passive building
                    principles. [GHG, RES]

         14.16.5    Support the best available technology improvements for:

                    •   Residential and commercial heating and cooling equipment, such as
                        heat pumps; and,
                    •   Other types of residential and commercial building equipment and
                        appliances. [GHG, RES]

         14.16.6    Collaborate with existing service providers to pick up at a reduced cost and
                    properly dispose of aging appliances to support replacement. [GHG]

         14.16.7    Collaborate with community based organizations, utilities, and additional
                    partners to provide free culturally and linguistically appropriate public
                    education on energy efﬁciency products, how to optimize using them, and
                    opportunities for operational cost savings. [GHG]

GOAL:
Promote a just approach to increasing clean, renewable, and diverse building energy
options in unincorporated Clark County to achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions.
[GHG, RES]




C LIMATE E LEMENT                                                                             390
                                  CLARK2045
14.17   Policies

        14.17.1    Implementation of policies under this goal shall: consider various scales of
                   projects (utility-scale, community-scale, and household scale), prioritize
                   beneﬁts for people who rent housing or commercial space and households
                   and businesses with limited income, avoid causing harm in overburdened
                   communities, and involve community education and feedback. [GHG, RES]

        14.17.2    Promote self-reliance and community capacity to respond to emergencies,
                   such as with distributed energy resources and energy management
                   systems, microgrids, and virtual power plants. [RES]

        14.17.3    Pursue innovations to expand and improve accessibility to a diversity of
                   clean renewable energy options. Renewable energy resources are deﬁned
                   in RCW 54.04.190. Clean renewable energy includes renewable resources
                   that have low or zero greenhouse gas emissions.

                   Examples include but are not limited to:

                   •   Collaborate with Northwest Natural and Clark Public Utilities on
                       utility-led decarbonization plans and renewable energy programs.
                   •   Remove barriers for renewable energy in site and building design.
                   •   Facilitate efﬁcient siting of renewable energy development.
                   •   Facilitate the development of community-owned, small-scale
                       renewable energy generation projects.
                   •   Advance pilot projects to test emerging and heritage technologies and
                       collect community feedback on projects to inform next steps.
                   •   Facilitate learning opportunities from projects in other communities.
                       [GHG]

        14.17.4    Incentivize new construction to be "future-ready" through incorporation of
                   design elements that support building owners and renters to easily adapt to
                   changing energy needs, preferences, and conditions over time, such as
                   considerations for: future electricity demand, electric vehicle charging,
                   onsite renewable energy and battery storage, connection to thermal energy
                   networks and other new energy options, etc. [GHG]

        14.17.5    Provide communitywide education about building energy choices to
                   support informed consumer decision-making, including but not limited to:

                   •   Building energy options (for example: information on the options
                       available),
                   •   Energy decarbonization pathways (for example: information on
                       pathway options, opportunities, and challenges), and,


391                                                                         C LIMATE E LEMENT
                                  CLARK2045
                    •   Energy efﬁciency (for example: information on the options, emerging
                        technology, and available incentives).

                    Educational offerings must include: cost, resilience and greenhouse gas
                    emissions reduction effectiveness, environmental justice, and co-beneﬁts
                    information related to the topic covered. [GHG]

GOAL:
Reduce building energy emissions for County owned and operated buildings and
facilities to net zero. [GHG]

14.18    Policies

         14.18.1    Audit County buildings and facilities to identify and prioritize
                    weatherization and energy efﬁciency upgrades and retroﬁts that are
                    needed or provide cost savings (as well as consolidate buildings and
                    relinquish unused space). [GHG]

         14.18.2    Develop and implement a county building greenhouse gas emissions
                    reduction plan to reduce county building energy use to net zero
                    greenhouse gas emissions. Align equipment upgrades with maintenance
                    and replacement schedules. [GHG]

         14.18.3    Integrate clean renewable energy sources and backup infrastructure where
                    feasible into building energy/operations. [GHG]

         14.18.4    Purchase renewable energy certiﬁcates if needed as a supplement to
                    reduce county operations emissions to zero while prioritizing measures
                    that directly reduce emissions. [GHG]

GOAL:
Promote green building and sustainable building practices. [GHG]

14.19    Policies

         14.19.1    Implementation of policies under this goal shall remove barriers for green
                    building practices, prioritize beneﬁts for renters, low income households,
                    and populations more vulnerable to negative health outcomes from climate
                    change and air pollution, and shall support local workforce professional
                    development in the green building ﬁeld, particularly for communities
                    experiencing barriers to employment. [GHG]




C LIMATE E LEMENT                                                                          392
                                      CLARK2045
           14.19.2     Collaborate with communities and agencies to adopt a county green
                       building policy that incorporates learnings from the City of Vancouver and
                       other existing examples. [GHG]

           14.19.3     Incentivize green building programs, including, but not limited to:
                       certiﬁcations for new construction, operational affordability standards,
                       green building practices and adaptive reuse of existing buildings. [GHG]

           14.19.4     Facilitate sustainable building education opportunities for communities
                       and professionals in the county in collaboration with partner organizations.

                       Examples of sustainable building education topics include, but are not
                       limited to:

                       •   Climate adaptive and resilient design;
                       •   Net-zero building examples; and,
                       •   Regenerative building approaches. [GHG, RES]

WASTE MANAGEMENT
In addition to the goals and policies listed in this chapter, see waste management related goals and
policies that intersect the Climate Element in Chapter 4 – Environment Element and Chapter 6 –
Capital Facilities and Utilities Element.

GOAL:
Promote accessible waste reduction, composting, and recycling community-wide to
reduce solid waste greenhouse gas emissions and support a more resilient and
resourceful community. [GHG, RES]

14.20      Policies

           14.20.1     Accessible waste management includes, but is not limited to:
                       communicating about initiatives in multiple languages, in multiple formats,
                       and in culturally relevant ways in collaboration with schools and community
                       organizations. Approaches that are practical in multifamily housing
                       complexes shall also be addressed. [GHG]

           14.20.2     Improve access to composting of yard debris and food waste throughout
                       urban and rural Clark County through curbside, drop-off, and at home
                       options. [GHG]

           14.20.3     Incentivize commercial and household composting and waste reduction.
                       [GHG]




393                                                                             C LIMATE E LEMENT
                                  CLARK2045
         14.20.4    Provide outreach, education, and technical assistance to households and
                    businesses, and advocacy to the state on improving access to and
                    participation with recycling and composting to encourage behavior change,
                    including County-led programs and community-based programs. [GHG]

         14.20.5    Repurpose organic waste for compost, energy, or other practical purposes
                    (such as an input for renewable natural gas or providing compost to
                    farmers). This policy must be implemented through approaches that reduce
                    greenhouse gas emissions and do not worsen air quality. [GHG, RES]

         14.20.6    Where possible, enhance capacity or programs for removing and
                    composting of solid waste and large vegetative debris in the aftermath of a
                    storm or other severe weather event. [RES]

GOAL:
Reduce waste emissions associated with County purchases. [GHG]

14.21    Policies

         14.21.1    Review, revise if needed, and implement the county’s environmentally
                    responsible purchasing policy and guidelines, including prioritization
                    guidelines for purchasing low carbon construction materials, sustainable
                    packaging, and local goods. [GHG]

GOAL:
Encourage using less and support a local maintenance, repair, reuse and resale economy
for household and business items [GHG]

14.22    Policies

         14.22.1    Policies under this goal related to education and community programs
                    should be designed to be accessible to any county resident or business,
                    regardless of language, income, or culture. County provided education
                    should be available in multiple languages, in multiple formats, and in
                    culturally inclusive ways in collaboration with schools and community
                    organizations. [GHG]

         14.22.2    Sustain existing goods reuse and repair programs, and sponsor events and
                    programs led by the County, businesses and community that improve the
                    demand for reused and recycled goods and materials. [GHG]




C LIMATE E LEMENT                                                                             394
                                   CLARK2045
         14.22.3    Provide accessible public education on household and business
                    maintenance, repair and reuse strategies, as well as the beneﬁts of
                    purchasing used goods. [GHG]

         14.22.4    Develop a local pollution surcharge -- for large producers of air pollutants,
                    wastewater, and solid waste that cannot be reused or recycled -- which may
                    be used to fund complementary environmental resilience projects in
                    overburdened communities. [GHG, RES]

COUNTY GOVERNANCE
GOAL:
Eﬀectively implement Climate Element policies. [GHG, RES]

14.23    Policies

         14.23.1    Develop and maintain county government staff members' capacity,
                    technical expertise, and skills related to climate change and environmental
                    justice so as to improve countywide policy implementation, equity, and
                    resilience. [GHG, RES]

         14.23.2    Establish a clear and coordinated approach for organizing implementation
                    of Climate Element policies across county departments, including a
                    designated department for leading implementation coordination and
                    designated staff across departments to lead implementation of speciﬁc
                    policies. [GHG, RES]

         14.23.3    Develop Climate Element priority policies and greenhouse gas emissions
                    inventory updates in alignment with the mandatory 5-year Department of
                    Commerce Climate Element monitoring and reporting schedule. For each
                    5-year cycle, identify implementation successes and barriers to progress to
                    help inform priorities for the next 5-years. [GHG, RES]

         14.23.4    Reduce unincorporated Clark County greenhouse gas emissions and
                    county operations emissions to net-zero by the year 2040 with incremental
                    targets as follows, where percent reductions are based on a 2022 baseline:

                    •   80% reduction by 2030;
                    •   87.5% reduction by 2035; and,
                    •   95% reduction by 2040 [GHG]

         14.23.5    Provide the County Council an annual work session on implementation of
                    the Climate Element. The update should include progress toward our
                    greenhouse gas reduction targets; signiﬁcant actions completed during the



395                                                                         C LIMATE E LEMENT
                                  CLARK2045
                    previous year; measurable emissions reductions where available; costs and
                    savings where available; signiﬁcant barriers encountered; and
                    opportunities to improve progress in the coming year. (See policies 14.14.2
                    and 14.14.3 for speciﬁc ﬂeet reporting metrics.) [GHG, RES]

GOAL:
Improve resilience of county operations to hazards exacerbated by climate change.
[RES]

14.24    Policies

         14.24.1    Strengthen and build redundancy into infrastructure, prioritizing areas that
                    may be socially or physically isolated from supportive services. [RES]

         14.24.2    Consider climate impacts when planning county response operations
                    including Public Works road clearing strategies during and after severe
                    weather events, and Sheriff’s Ofﬁce operations during severe weather.
                    [RES]




C LIMATE E LEMENT                                                                             396
CHAPTER
PROCEDURAL GUIDELINES
                        15
                                     CLARK2045

CHAPTER 15
Procedural Guidelines

INTRODUCTION
Adoption of the 20-Year Plan does not complete the land use planning process. The plan must be
regularly reviewed and updated to remain consistent with state law and the county’s growth plans
and strategies. This chapter differs in format from other chapters because it establishes
procedures and criteria which shall be followed for the ongoing implementation and updating of
the 20-Year Plan as established in Washington Administrative Code 365-196.

PLAN INTERPRETATION
The 20-Year Plan provides a guide and regulatory framework for development in Clark County
that reﬂects the community vision of a desirable community. Plan policies are identiﬁed by
number at the end of each chapter. Because of the general nature of the 20-Year Planning policies,
conﬂict between and among these policies is possible. The following general rules of construction
are intended to be used in interpreting the 20-Year Plan:

   •   Policies are intended to be read as mutually supportive and all are intended to be read
       together so that each has meaning.
   •   When conﬂicts arise between policies, the policy which is more speciﬁc shall prevail.
   •   The 20-Year Plan Map, or future proposals to amend the 20-Year Plan Map, should reﬂect
       and be based upon the 20-Year Planning policies in the text.
   •   When conﬂicts arise between the 20-Year Planning policies and the 20-Year Plan Map, the
       Map shall prevail.
   •   The 20-Year Plan is consistent with the statewide goals and carries out in more detail the
       Community Framework Plan. The 20-Year Plan also contains strategies which, in contrast to
       policies, are not intended to be directive but are suggested as a means to carry out the
       Plan. Other strategies to carry out the plan may also be available and in some cases
       preferred.
   •   UGA boundaries following a public road shall be construed to encompass the entire right-
       of-way.

AMENDMENTS TO 20-YEAR PLAN
Amendments to the 20-Year Plan fall into several major categories or types and different review
application and review criteria are applied. The kinds of amendments identiﬁed in this chapter are:

   •   Urban growth boundary changes,


P ROCEDURAL G UIDELINES                                                                       398
                                      CLARK2045
     •   20-Year Plan policy or text change,
     •   20-Year Plan Map change,
     •   Changes to supporting materials (such as capital facilities) and
     •   Emergency amendments (including regional facilities and technical errors or omissions.)

As appropriate, each of these types of amendments are described, criteria are identiﬁed, the
persons or parties responsible or authorized to initiate amendments are outlined and procedures
are identiﬁed below. This chapter also contains policies for removal of the Urban Holding overlay
zone through Type IV county initiated rezone proceedings.

All proposed amendments to the 20-Year Plan of any type and in any year shall be:
    a. Considered concurrently so that the cumulative effect of the various proposals can be
        ascertained.
    b. Reviewed by the Planning Commission and the County Council.
    c. In compliance with the effective date provisions outlined in RCW 36.70A.067.
    d. Consistent with all applicable provisions of the county code including 40.560.010 (A) to (P)
        and with all applicable city/town comprehensive plan and code provisions;


U R B AN G R O W T H B O U N D A R Y C H AN G E S
The following table outlines the process and other details associated with Urban Growth
Boundary changes:




 Row     Type of       Review        Criteria that proponent must demonstrate         Frequency   Who can
 No.     change        process                                                                    request
 1       10-year       Periodic      The county shall use the following criteria to   Every 10    County
         periodic      review,       determine where and how much land should         years
         update        consistent    be added to the urban area and to ensure the
         urban         with RCW      proposal:
         growth        36.70A.130
         boundary                    a.   Meets the criteria listed under
         changes                          “Amendments to 20-Year Plan” a-d above.
                                     b.   Is consistent with 36.70A.130(3)(c)
                                     c.   Considers urban reserve areas ﬁrst.
                                     d.   Is compatible with contiguous
                                          development within the urban growth
                                          area and proposed development shall
                                          occur at urban intensity.
                                     e.   Incorporates boundary line amendments
                                          with parallel changes to the
                                          Comprehensive Plan Map and Zoning



399                                                                        P ROCEDURAL G UIDELINES
                                       CLARK2045
 Row    Type of       Review          Criteria that proponent must demonstrate         Frequency     Who can
 No.    change        process                                                                        request
                                           map for the affected properties, unless
                                           otherwise required by the county.

 2      UGA Swaps     Annual          The county shall use the following criteria to   No more       County
        that do not   review,         determine where and how much land should         than once     or
        add any       consistent      be added to the urban area and to ensure the     per year 83   Property
        population,   with RCW        proposal:                                                      owner
        housing or    36.70A.130
        employment                    a.   Meets the criteria listed under
        capacity,                          “Amendments to 20-Year Plan” a-d above.
        such as                       b.   Is consistent with 36.70A.110(8)
        parks                         c.   Considers urban reserve areas ﬁrst.
                                      d.   Is compatible with contiguous
                                           development within the urban growth
                                           area and proposed development shall
                                           occur at urban intensity.
                                      e.   Incorporates boundary line amendments
                                           with parallel changes to the
                                           Comprehensive Plan Map and Zoning
                                           map for the affected properties, unless
                                           otherwise required by the county.


Table 15.1 Urban Growth Boundary changes




P L AN P O L IC Y O R T E X T C H AN G E
The following table outlines the process and other details associated with Comprehensive Plan
policy and text amendments:


 Row       Type of change   Review           Criteria that proponent must              Frequency     Who can
 No.                        process          demonstrate                                             request
 1         Comprehensive    Periodic         The county shall ensure the proposal      Every 10      County
           Plan policy or   review,          meets the criteria listed under           years
           text             consistent       “Amendments to 20-Year Plan” a-d
           amendments       with RCW         above.
                            36.70A.130




83
   Amendments proposed by the county may be considered more frequently than once per year as outlined
in RCW 36.70A.130(2)(a) and (b), RCW 36.70A.390 and WAC 365-196-640 and WAC 365-196-650.


P ROCEDURAL G UIDELINES                                                                               400
                                       CLARK2045
 Row       Type of change   Review         Criteria that proponent must            Frequency     Who can
 No.                        process        demonstrate                                           request
 2         Comprehensive    Annual         Citeria as outlined in row 1 of this    No more       County;
           Plan policy or   docket         table.                                  than once     city or
           text             process,                                               per year 84   interested
           amendments       consistent                                                           person(s)
                            with RCW
                            36.70A.130




Table 15.2 Comprehensive Plan Policy And Text Amendments




84
   Amendments proposed by the county may be considered more frequently than once per year as outlined
in RCW 36.70A.130(2)(a) and (b), RCW 36.70A.390 and WAC 365-196-640 and WAC 365-196-650.


401                                                                         P ROCEDURAL G UIDELINES
                                       CLARK2045
P L AN M AP A M EN D M E N T
The following table outlines the process and other details associated with Comprehensive Plan
map amendments:

Table 15.3 Comprehensive Plan Map Amendments

 Row    Type of change    Review           Criteria that proponent must         Frequency     Who can
 No.                      process          demonstrate                                        request
 1      Comprehensive     Periodic         If the proponent demonstrates        Every 10      County
        Plan map          review,          that the supply of available land    years
        amendments        consistent       in the requested plan
                          with RCW         designation may be insufﬁcient
                          36.70A.130       to accommodate anticipated
                                           growth, then the county shall
                                           use the following criteria to
                                           determine where, when and how
                                           much land in a speciﬁc land use
                                           category should be added and to
                                           ensure the proposal:

                                           a.   Meets the criteria listed
                                                under “Amendments to 20-
                                                Year Plan” a-d above.
                                           b.   Will not impact the
                                                character of the area to the
                                                extent that further plan map
                                                amendments will be
                                                warranted in future annual
                                                reviews unless the scope of
                                                the amendment is expanded.
                                                The county may expand the
                                                scope of any annual review.

 2      Comprehensive     Annual review    Criteria outlined in row 1 of this   No more       County,
        Plan map          and docket       table.                               than once     city or
        amendments        process,                                              per year 85   interested
                          consistent                                                          persons(s)
                          with RCW
                          36.70A.130




85
   Amendments proposed by the county may be considered more frequently than once per year as outlined
in RCW 36.70A.130(2)(a) and (b), RCW 36.70A.390 and WAC 365-196-640 and WAC 365-196-650.


P ROCEDURAL G UIDELINES                                                                                402
                                     CLARK2045

OTHER PLANNING DOCUMENTS

C A P I T AL F AC IL I T I E S P L AN S
Capital Facilities Plan Updates are reviewed in public hearings by the Clark County Planning
Commission and County Council for those facilities subject to county jurisdiction.


A R T E R I AL A T L A S
The Arterial Atlas is a supporting document to the comprehensive plan, which deﬁnes the future
roadway system in terms of role, function and cross-section. Arterial Atlas amendments are
considered as plan map amendments and judged using the following criteria:

   1. Is there a need for a change and state the reason;
   2. Is the proposed change compliant with the Growth Management Act (e.g. level-of-service
      standards);
   3. Is the change consistent with the adopted comprehensive plan;
   4. Is the change consistent with applicable interlocal agreements; and
   5. Is the change consistent with the adopted Regional Transportation Plan.


T R A N S P O R T A T IO N I M P R O V E M E N T P L AN S
Transportation Improvement Plan updates are reviewed annually in public hearings by the Clark
County Planning Commission and Clark County Council.


P A R K S , R E C R E AT I O N & O P E N S P AC E P L A N
Park, Recreation and Open Space Plan updates are reviewed by the Clark County Parks Advisory
Board, Planning Commission and the Clark County Council, except amendments to the park
impact fee ordinance, which are reviewed in public hearings by the Planning Commission and
County Council.

SPECIAL IMPLEMENTATION PROCEDURES
The comprehensive plan map contemplates one land use method to assure the adequacy of public
facilities needed to support urban development within urban growth areas. That method is to
apply an Urban Holding District combined with urban zoning.




403                                                                   P ROCEDURAL G UIDELINES
                                     CLARK2045
U R B AN H O L D IN G
When development polices require a legislative action prior to urban development occurring, the
county applies the Urban Holding Plan Map and Zoning Overlay with a speciﬁc underlying urban
zone. In these cases, identiﬁed criteria are established that must be met in order to remove the
urban holding zoning and authorize the underlying urban zone. Under certain circumstances a
Master Plan or Sub-Area Plan which includes how and when an area develops and with what uses,
may be required. In most cases, city plan policies may require annexation prior to development.

BATTLE GROUND, CAMAS, LA CENTER, RIDGEFIELD, WASHOUGAL,
YACOLT AND WOODLAND URBAN GROWTH AREAS
These areas may only undergo urban development following annexation, or consistent with an
Intergovernmental Agreement which responds to a signiﬁcant opportunity for a major employer if
immediate annexation is not geographically feasible.

VANCOUVER URBAN GROWTH AREA
The county applies urban holding in the Vancouver Urban Growth Area due to lack of urban
services. The county will remove the UH overlay if urban services are available and the county can
collect transportation related data, analyze the cumulative transportation impacts and address
mitigation to these impacts.

GOVERNMENTAL COORDINATION
Clark County, with each city and town, will provide for annual review processes. These update
periods shall be established to occur within each jurisdiction not to exceed once a year.
These annual reviews shall meet the following criteria:

   1. Each urban area annual review shall assess the cumulative impacts of all potential or
      requested changes to the 20-Year Plan Map and policies throughout the urban area and,
      further, on the countywide plan.

   2. Proposals that would result in urban development outside of an adopted urban boundary
      shall not be permitted.

   3. Cities, special districts and Clark County shall cooperate to preserve and protect natural
      resources, agricultural lands, open space and recreational lands within and near the urban
      areas.

In addition to plan amendments or updates initiated by the county or applicable city, individual
annual review applications may be submitted once a year to the applicable jurisdiction based on a
schedule adopted by that jurisdiction. To the extent possible, the same schedule should be
adopted by the county and each city/town for each urban area to facilitate mutual review and
assessment of the criteria in Governmental Coordination above. Where no agreement exists



P ROCEDURAL G UIDELINES                                                                         404
                                        CLARK2045
between the applicable city and the county or the amendment request is in the rural area, annual
review applications and plan update requests shall be submitted in December of each year and
processed by the county during the following year.

PLAN AMENDMENT, PUBLIC NOTIFICATION &
PUBLIC HEARING PROCESSES
All private applicants (except for those alleging an error in drafting or judgment) requesting
amendment to the 20-Year Plan text, policies or map must ﬁle for a pre-application conference
prior to or in conjunction with submittal of a formal application as described in CCC40.560.


DISPUTE RESOLUTION
Traditional approaches to conﬂict are not set up to help parties resolve their differences; rather
they are designed to decide an issue. The dispute mediation process allows for consensus building
and can be used in disputes at the neighbor level, disputes between jurisdictions or disputes at the
policy setting level.

The Washington State Dispute Resolution Act, (RCW 7.75) allows the county to place a surcharge
on Civil and Small Claims ﬁling fees for funding a dispute resolution center. Assisted mediation
services may be available through a county operated Dispute Resolution Center or through the
selection of a private facilitation/mediation service provider.

It is therefore the policy of Clark County to encourage the use of alternative dispute resolution
techniques, recognizing the cost, complexity and adversarial nature of resolving neighborhood
and community disputes through the traditional hearing process.


COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS & INTERJURISDICTIONAL
GUIDELINES
A signiﬁcant degree of cooperation and coordination between the county, cities and other service
providers is required to manage land use in the urban and rural areas. Policies covering
interagency cooperation, land use planning and development review, urban service provisions and
boundary amendments are needed to set the countywide framework for interjurisdictional
agreements.

As needed, build on the interagency planning teams established in the Countywide Planning
Policies to foster the ongoing coordinating program within the rural area and each urban area to
include the county, all cities and towns, all special districts (including school districts, Clark Public
Utilities, Clark County Public Health, Clark Regional Wastewater District, port districts and ﬁre
districts) including:




405                                                                         P ROCEDURAL G UIDELINES
                                     CLARK2045
   1. Speciﬁc procedures for affected agencies, jurisdictions and special districts to participate,
      review and comment on the proposed plans and implementation measures of the others to
      assure consistency with the 20-Year Plan.

   2. Speciﬁc coordination procedures for affected agencies, jurisdictions and special districts to
      periodically review, at a minimum of every ten years, the capital improvement plans, to
      enhance, improve and focus concurrency management plans and to assure consistency
      with all other elements of the 20-Year Plan. Such procedures shall include an inventory of
      the location and capacities of the public facilities to include, at a minimum, public roads,
      public water and sewer systems, storm water facilities, schools, parks and recreational
      facilities and police and ﬁre protection services. Where inconsistencies are identiﬁed
      between the Capital Facilities and Utilities element, including ﬁnancing assumptions and
      actual ﬁnancing and the other plan elements, the procedures shall ensure that appropriate
      plan amendments are made to eliminate those inconsistencies.

   3. Speciﬁc procedures to improve joint efforts or the combining of operations (e.g., roads,
      sheriff/police departments, ﬁre departments) to achieve greater efﬁciency and
      effectiveness in service provision.


L A N D U S E P L A N N I N G I MP L E M E N T A T I O N M E A S U R E S &
A N N E X AT I O N
   1. City/town and county adopted implementation measures shall be, to the extent possible,
      consistent within all urban areas.

   2. Cities/towns shall not annex territory beyond the adopted urban growth boundaries. Clark
      County shall not permit urban growth to occur outside of adopted urban boundaries.




P ROCEDURAL G UIDELINES                                                                          406
Glossary
                                      CLARK2045

GLOSSARY
Active Transportation – forms of pedestrian mobility including walking or running, the use of a
mobility assistive device such as a wheelchair, bicycling and cycling irrespective of the number of
wheels, and the use of small personal devices such as foot scooters or skateboards. Active
transportation includes both traditional and electric assist bicycles and other devices. Planning for
active transportation must consider and address accommodation pursuant to the Americans with
Disabilities Act and the distinct needs of each form of active transportation.

Active Transportation Facilities – facilities provided for the safety and mobility of active
transportation users including, but not limited to, trails, as deﬁned in RCW 47.30.005, sidewalks,
bike lanes, shared-use paths, and other facilities in the public right-of-way.

Adaptive Capacity – the ability of a person, asset, or system to adjust to a hazard, take advantage
of new opportunities, or cope with change.

Adequate Public Facilities – facilities which have the capacity to serve development without
decreasing levels of service below locally established minimums.

Anti-displacement – actions taken to address displacement’s adverse effects on the social,
economic, and physical well-being of community members.

Affordable Housing - unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, residential housing whose
monthly costs, including utilities other than telephone, do not exceed 30 percent of the monthly
income of a household whose income is: (a) For rental housing, 60 percent of the median
household income adjusted for household size, for the county where the household is located, as
reported by the United States department of housing and urban development; or (b) For owner-
occupied housing, 80 percent of the median household income adjusted for household size, for the
county where the household is located, as reported by the United States department of housing
and urban development.

Arterial - a major street carrying the trafﬁc of local and collector streets to and from freeways and
other major streets. Arterials generally have trafﬁc signals at intersections and may have limits on
driveway spacing and street intersection spacing.

Average Daily Trafﬁc (ADT) - the average number of vehicle trips per weekday (Monday through
Friday) to and from a site.

Build Out - having no remaining land; fully developed to the maximum permitted by adopted plans
and zoning.




G LOSSARY                                                                                       408
                                      CLARK2045
Capital Facilities Plan (CFP) - a required component of the comprehensive plan that deals with the
costs and funding of governmental services.

Clark County Code (CCC) - laws adopted by the Clark County Council.

Climate Resilience – the ongoing process of anticipating, preparing for, and adapting to changes in
climate and minimizing negative impacts to our natural systems, infrastructure, and communities.
For natural systems, increasing climate resilience involves restoring and increasing the health,
function, and integrity of our ecosystems and improving their ability to absorb and recover from
climate-affected disturbances. For communities, increasing climate resilience means enhancing
their ability to understand, prevent, adapt, and recover from climate impacts to people and
infrastructure.

Cohousing – is a residential model in which a cluster of attached and/or single-family houses are
built around a common building for share use such as meals, childcare, guest rooms, laundry and
recreational uses.

Collector - a street for moving trafﬁc between major or arterial streets and local streets. Collector
streets generally provide direct access to properties, although they may have limitations on
driveway spacing.

Community Framework Plan - a document that identiﬁes broad land use categories and policies
that are to be used as a guide to the development of comprehensive plans as mandated by the
Growth Management Act. The time frame is for a 50-plus-year period and because of this time
frame the Framework Plan is necessarily general and not a ﬁnal speciﬁc plan. The Framework Plan
was adopted by the Board of County Commissioners in May of 1992 to provide guidance to future
policy decisions in the Comprehensive Plans. The Community Framework Plan is the result of the
recognition that growth will not stop in 20 years and many items such as water, sewer and roads
have planning time frames beyond this time period.

Commute Trip Reduction Act (CTR) - requires large employers to reduce the percentage of their
employees who commute to work in single occupancy vehicles.

Comprehensive Plans - a document consisting of maps, charts and text which contains the
adopting city or county's policies regarding long-term (20-year) development. A comprehensive
plan is a legal document required of each local government by the State of Washington. The
required content of the comprehensive plan is described in RCW 36.70A which directs that at a
minimum the plan shall contain the following elements:
    • Land use;
    • Housing;
    • Transportation;
    • Capital Facilities;
    • Utilities;
    • Rural lands (counties only);



409                                                                                      G LOSSARY
                                       CLARK2045
   •   Shorelines; and
   •   Climate change and resiliency.

Clark County has chosen to include the following optional elements:
   • Natural resource lands;
   • Economic development;
   • Schools;
   • Community design;
   • Annexation and incorporation;
   • Parks, recreation and open space;
   • Critical areas; and,
   • Historic, archaeological and cultural preservation.

Concurrency – adequate public facilities are available when the impacts of development occur, or
within a speciﬁed time thereafter.

Consolidated Metropolitan Statistical Area (CMSA) - refers to the Portland PMSA, which
includes Clackamas, Multnomah, Washington and Yamhill counties and the Vancouver PMSA,
which is composed of Clark County, together.

Covered Employment - includes jobs where the employee provides insurance as part of a basic
beneﬁts package.

Critical Areas - include the following areas and ecosystems: (a) wetlands; (b) areas with a critical
recharging effect on aquifers used for potable water; (c) ﬁsh and wildlife habitat conservation
areas; (d) frequently ﬂooded areas; and (e) geologically hazardous areas. "Fish and wildlife habitat
conservation areas" does not include such artiﬁcial features or constructs as irrigation delivery
systems, irrigation infrastructure, irrigation canals, or drainage ditches that lie within the
boundaries of and are maintained by a port district or an irrigation district or company.

Density - for residential development, density means the number of housing units per acre. For
population, density means the number of people per acre or square mile.

Density, Gross - density calculations based on the overall acreage of an area, including streets,
roads, easements, rights-of-way, parks, open space and, sometimes, other land uses.

Density, Net - density calculations based on the actual area of land used, exclusive of streets,
roads, rights-of-way, easements, parks and open space.

Developable Land - land that is suitable as a location for structures because it is free of hazards
(ﬂood, ﬁre, geological, wetlands, etc.), has access to services, (water, sewer, storm drainage and
transportation) and will not disrupt or adversely affect natural resource areas.

Displacement –means the process by which a household is forced to move from its community
because of conditions beyond its control.



G LOSSARY                                                                                           410
                                      CLARK2045
Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) - See: State Environmental Policy Act.

Element - a mandatory or optional component or chapter of the comprehensive plan.

Emergency Housing - temporary indoor accommodations for individuals or families who are
homeless or at imminent risk of becoming homeless that is intended to address the basic health,
food, clothing, and personal hygiene needs of individuals or families. Emergency housing may or
may not require occupants to enter into a lease or an occupancy agreement.

Emergency Shelter - a facility that provides a temporary shelter for individuals or families who are
currently homeless. Emergency shelter may not require occupants to enter into a lease or an
occupancy agreement. Emergency shelter facilities may include day and warming centers that do
not provide overnight accommodations.

Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) - a document that analyses the environment impacts of a
project or policy and suggests mitigation measures. See also: State Environmental Policy Act.

Environmental Justice – the fair treatment and meaningful involvement of all people regardless of
race, color, national origin, or income with respect to development, implementation, and
enforcement of environmental laws, regulations, and policies. Environmental justice includes
addressing disproportionate environmental and health impacts in all laws, rules, and policies with
environmental impacts by prioritizing vulnerable populations and overburdened communities and
the equitable distribution of resources and beneﬁts.

Essential Public Facilities – include those facilities that are typically difﬁcult to site, such as
airports, state education facilities, and state or regional transportation facilities as deﬁned in
RCW 47.06.140, regional transit authority facilities as deﬁned in RCW 81.112.020, state and local
correctional facilities, solid waste handling facilities, opioid treatment programs including both
mobile and ﬁxed-site medication units, recovery residences, harm reduction programs excluding
safe injection sites, and inpatient facilities including substance use disorder treatment facilities,
mental health facilities, group homes, community facilities as deﬁned in RCW 72.05.020, and
secure community transition facilities as deﬁned in RCW 71.09.020.

Flood Hazard Area - the area that will be inundated by the ﬂood event having a 1-percent chance
of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. The 1-percent annual chance ﬂood is also referred
to as the base ﬂood or 100-year ﬂood.

Fully Contained Communities - are developments within urban growth areas that have been
planned 1) to have a complete array of land uses such as commercial, residential and/or ofﬁces;
and, 2) to potentially be self-sufﬁcient. Large scale residential developments are not fully
contained communities. If allowed to occur outside urban areas a portion of the OFM assigned
population for Clark County has to be set aside for these communities.

Green Infrastructure – a wide array of natural assets and built structures within an urban growth
area boundary, including parks and other areas with protected tree canopy, and management



411                                                                                      G LOSSARY
                                       CLARK2045
practices at multiple scales that manage wet weather and that maintain and restore natural
hydrology by storing, inﬁltrating, evapotranspiring, and harvesting and using stormwater.

Green Space – an area of land, vegetated by natural features such as grass, trees, or shrubs, within
an urban context and less than one acre in size that creates public value through one or more of
the following attributes: (a) Is accessible to the public; (b) Promotes physical and mental health of
residents; (c) Provides relief from the urban heat island effects; (d) Promotes recreational and
aesthetic values; (e) Protects streams or water supply; or (f) Preserves visual quality along
highway, road, or street corridors.

Greenhouse Gas and Greenhouse Gases – includes carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide,
hydroﬂuorocarbons, perﬂuorocarbons, sulfur hexaﬂuoride, and any other gas or gases designated
by the department [Ecology] by rule.

Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction – actions taken to reduce the emissions of greenhouse
gases to reduce the rate of climate change.

Growth Management - the use by a community of a wide range of techniques in combination to
determine the amount, type and rate of development desired by the community and to channel
that growth into designated areas.

Growth Management Act - House Bill 2929 adopted in 1990 and amended by House Bill 1025 in
1991. This Law requires the fastest growing counties in the state to construct comprehensive
plans. See the introduction for a more complete description and RCW 36.70A.

High Occupancy Vehicle (HOV) - a vehicle carrying more than two people. Carpools, vanpools and
buses are examples.

Household - all persons living in a dwelling unit, whether or not they are related. Both a single
person living in an apartment and a family in a house are considered a "household".

Household Income - the total of all the incomes of all the people living in a household. The federal
government deﬁnes four income categories, adjusted for household size, as follows:

    •   Extremely low income = households earning at or below 30 percent of the area median
        income.
    •   Very low income = households earning less than 50 percent of the area median income.
    •   Low income = households earning between 51 and 80 percent of the area median income.
    •   Moderate income = households earning between 81 and 120 percent of the area median
        income.

Human Scale - buildings, landscapes, streetscapes and other built features which do not
overwhelm pedestrians.

Impact Fee - a fee levied on the developer of a project by a city, county or special district as
compensation for the expected effects of the development. The Growth Management Act


G LOSSARY                                                                                           412
                                      CLARK2045
authorizes imposition of impact fees on new development and sets the conditions under which
they may be imposed.

Implementation Measure - an action, procedure, program or technique that carries out
comprehensive plan policy.

Inﬁll Development - development on vacant parcels in urban or urbanizing areas that were passed
over by previous developments.

Infrastructure - the physical systems and services which support development and people, such as
streets and highways, transit service, water and sewer systems, storm drainage systems and
airports.

Intersections of Regional Signiﬁcance - intersections at which at least three (3) approaches have a
comprehensive plan functional classiﬁcation of collector or higher.

Jobs/Housing Balance - a concept to increase the job and housing opportunities in an area where
the work force primarily commutes out of the area or into the area. Concepts such as mixed use
developments, telecommuting and attracting industries to the area are ways in which this may be
accomplished.

Level-of-Service (LOS) - a method of measuring and deﬁning the type and quality of a particular
public service such as transportation, ﬁre protection, police protection, schools/education, storm
drainage and sewer and water systems. The county and its cities must cooperatively develop
standards for level-of-service for public services and infrastructure as a part of the policies
governing growth management.

Master Planned Resorts - are developments outside of urban areas that provide a range of
recreational amenities and focus primarily on short-term visitor accommodations but not
including vacation homes.

Metro - the regional government that serves the urban populations of Clackamas, Multnomah and
Washington counties in Oregon. It is responsible for transportation and land use planning, regional
parks and greenspaces and other regional functions.

Metropolitan Greenspaces - a program administered by Metro, in which Clark County is a
participating partner, that has deﬁned and inventoried natural areas to preserve as open space in
the Vancouver/ Portland metropolitan area. These areas have been targeted for purchase when
funds become available.

Middle Housing - means duplexes, triplexes, quadplexes, and single-family attached dwellings
(townhouses).

Mixed Use Development - developments designed to be pedestrian friendly that locate housing,
commercial and/or ofﬁces in the same structure(s) or within close proximity of each other. These




413                                                                                     G LOSSARY
                                     CLARK2045
developments are intended to reduce the dependency on the automobile and create a sense of
place.

Multimodal Safety Beneﬁts – beneﬁts derived from roadway designs and operations that reduce
the potential for serious crash-related injuries or deaths for people using every mode of
transportation. Such design and operational approaches explicitly consider and manage the
movements, speeds and conﬂicts between each of those transportation users to reduce the
exposure, likelihood, and severity of crashes.

Multimodal Transportation – systems that facilitate the movement of people and goods through a
combination of infrastructure and services for walking, biking, riding public transit and ferries,
driving, and making connections to rail and aviation. These systems should provide safe, well-
connected mobility options for all, including those who cannot and do not drive.

Natural Resource Lands - lands which may be used for commercial forest, agriculture, or mineral
extraction industries. Cities and counties must classify and designate these lands and develop
policies to protect them as a part of growth management planning. See Chapter 4, Rural and
Resource Lands for a detailed discussion.

Net-Zero – a state in which a local jurisdiction’s greenhouse gases going into the atmosphere are
reduced to near-zero, or 95 percent below baseline levels by 2050, and the remaining greenhouse
gases that cannot be eliminated are mitigated with carbon dioxide sequestration to bring total net
emissions to zero.

Washington State Ofﬁce of Financial Management (OFM) - state ofﬁce that ofﬁcially provides
the County with population projections that as a minimum must be used in growth management
planning.

Open Space - any parcel or area of land or water that is essentially unimproved and devoted to an
open space use such as preservation of natural resources, outdoor recreation not requiring
development of play ﬁelds or structures, or public health and safety (ﬂood control).

Overburdened Community – a geographic area where vulnerable populations face combined,
multiple environmental harms and health impacts, and includes, but is not limited to, highly
impacted communities as deﬁned in RCW 19.405.020.

Pedestrian Friendly - developments that are designed ﬁrst for pedestrians then for the movement
of vehicles. These developments are often mixed use (two and three story buildings with
storefront retail) in nature with wide sidewalks, landscaping and buildings that are in scale with
pedestrians.

Per Capita Vehicle Miles Traveled – the number of miles traveled using cars and light trucks in a
calendar year divided by the number of residents. The calculation of this value excludes vehicle
miles driven conveying freight.




G LOSSARY                                                                                      414
                                       CLARK2045
Permanent Supportive Housing - subsidized, leased housing with no limit on length of stay that
prioritizes people who need comprehensive support services to retain tenancy and utilizes
admissions practices designed to use lower barriers to entry than would be typical for other
subsidized or unsubsidized rental housing, especially related to rental history, criminal history, and
personal behaviors. Permanent supportive housing is paired with on-site or off-site voluntary
services designed to support a person living with a complex and disabling behavioral health or
physical health condition who was experiencing homelessness or was at imminent risk of
homelessness prior to moving into housing to retain their housing and be a successful tenant in a
housing arrangement, improve the resident's health status, and connect the resident of the
housing with community-based health care, treatment, or employment services. Permanent
supportive housing is subject to all of the rights and responsibilities deﬁned in chapter 59.18 RCW.

Planning Commission - a group of people appointed by a city council or county council to
administer planning and land use regulations for the jurisdiction. State regulations governing the
powers and activities of a planning commission are contained in RCW 36.70.

Primary Metropolitan Statistical Area (PMSA) - refers to major urban regions which are used to
compile statistical and census data.

Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) – the transportation plan for the regionally designated
transportation system which is produced by the regional transportation planning organization.

Renewable Resource – (i) water; (ii) wind; (iii) solar energy; (iv) geothermal energy; (v) renewable
natural gas; (vi) renewable hydrogen; (vii) wave, ocean, or tidal power; (viii) biodiesel fuel that is
not derived from crops raised on land cleared from old growth or ﬁrst growth forests; or (ix)
biomass energy.

Renewable Natural Gas – a gas consisting largely of methane and other hydrocarbons derived
from the decomposition of organic material in landﬁlls, wastewater treatment facilities, and
anaerobic digesters.

Revised Code of Washington (RCW) - the most recent edition, in a consolidated and codiﬁed form,
of all the laws of the state of a general and permanent nature.

Senior Housing – is housing designed for seniors age 55 and older.

Shared Housing – is an arrangement in which two or more unrelated people share a house or an
apartment. Usually private sleeping quarters are available; the rest of the house or apartment is
shared.

State Environmental Policy Act (SEPA) - the Washington State Environmental Policy Act requires
that each city or county consider the environmental impacts of a proposed development before
approval and incorporate measures to mitigate any expected negative impacts as conditions of
approval. The process is to prepare a draft environmental impact statement (DEIS) for public




415                                                                                        G LOSSARY
                                      CLARK2045
review and then a ﬁnal environmental impact statement (FEIS). The FEIS is not adopted as part of
the plan but is used as a tool to help in making decisions concerning the plan.

Transfer of Development Rights (TDR) - a voluntary, market-based mechanism that enables
landowners in rural areas to sell development rights to developers in urban centers, thereby
conserving rural lands while supporting urban density and growth.

Transportation Demand Management (TDM) - a concept to reduce the demand on roadways
through changes in individuals travel behavior.

Transportation Demand Management Strategies – strategies designed to change travel behavior
to make more efﬁcient use of existing facilities to meet travel demand.

Transportation System – all infrastructure and services for all forms of transportation within a
geographical area, irrespective of the responsible jurisdiction or transportation provider.

Urban and Community Forests - "Urban and community forest" or "urban forest" is that land in
and around human settlements ranging from small communities to metropolitan areas, occupied
or potentially occupied by trees and associated vegetation. Urban and community forestland may
be planted or unplanted, used or unused, and includes public and private lands, lands along
transportation and utility corridors, and forested watershed lands within populated areas.

Urban Growth Area (UGA) - areas established as part of the growth management process to allow
for the efﬁcient provision of urban levels of governmental services and where urban growth will
be encouraged. Urban growth areas should contain enough vacant land to accommodate the 20-
year growth projections by OFM. Counties and cities should cooperatively establish the urban
growth areas and cities must be located inside urban growth areas. Once established, cities cannot
annex land outside the urban growth area. Growth outside of urban growth areas must be rural in
character.

Urban Growth Boundary (UGB) - the line designating the extent of the urban growth area.

Urban Reserve Areas - land adjacent to urban growth areas that are reserved for future
urbanization which allows for the orderly conversion of land to urban densities when it can be
demonstrated that the supply of developable land within the urban growth area is depleted.

Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) - the average number of miles traveled by a vehicle in a given area.
This is both a measure of trip length and of dependency on private vehicles.

Vision, Visioning - a collective and collaborative statement by citizens, elected and appointed
ofﬁcials and interested parties of their preference for what their community can and should be.

Vulnerable Populations – (a) population groups that are more likely to be at higher risk for poor
health outcomes in response to environmental harms, due to: (i) Adverse socioeconomic factors,
such as unemployment, high housing and transportation costs relative to income, limited access to
nutritious food and adequate health care, linguistic isolation, and other factors that negatively


G LOSSARY                                                                                        416
                                       CLARK2045
affect health outcomes and increase vulnerability to the effects of environmental harms; and (ii)
Sensitivity factors, such as low birth weight and higher rates of hospitalization. (b) Vulnerable
populations includes, but is not limited to: (i) Racial or ethnic minorities; (ii) Low-income
populations; and (iii) Populations disproportionately impacted by environmental harms.

Washington Administrative Code (WAC) - regulations adopted by state agencies to implement
state legislation.

Wildland Urban Interface (WUI) – the geographical area where structures and other human
development meets or intermingles with wildland vegetative fuels.

Zoning - a map and ordinance text which divides a city or county into land use districts and
speciﬁes the types of land uses, setbacks, lot size and size restrictions for buildings within each
district.




417                                                                                        G LOSSARY
            CLARK2045




G LOSSARY               418
Abbreviations
AND ACRONYMS
                                     CLARK2045

ABBREVIATIONS
and Acronyms

Abbreviation/       Deﬁnition
Acronym
ACS                 American Community Survey
ADA                 Americans with Disabilities Act
ADT                 Average Daily Trafﬁc
ADUs                Accessory Dwelling Units
ARP                 Aging Readiness Plan
BIPOC               Black, Indigenous and People of Color
BMPs                Best Management Practices
BNSF                Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railroad
BPAC                Clark Communities Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory Committee
BRT                 Bus Rapid Transit
BYCX                Chelatchie Prairie Railroad Association
CAAB                Community Action Advisory Board
CAG                 Community Advisory Group
CAIC                Child Abuse Intervention Center
Capital Plan        Discovery Clean Water Alliance Capital Plan
CCC                 Clark County Code
CDBG                Community Development Block Grant
CFP                 Capital Facilities Plan
CFT                 Conservation Futures Tax
CGMP                Comprehensive Growth Management Plan
CHA                 Clark County Community Health Assessment
CHAS                Comprehensive Housing Affordability Strategy
CHG                 Consolidated Homelessness Grant
CHIP                Clark County Community Health Improvement Plan
CIP                 Capital Improvement Plan
CMSA                Consolidated Metropolitan Statistical Area
CO                  Carbon Monoxide
Commerce            Washington State Department of Commerce
Consolidated Plan   2025-2029 Clark County Consolidated Plan
CPU                 Clark Public Utilities
CRA                 Community Reinvestment Act
CRC                 Columbia Resource Company
CREDC               Columbia River Economic Development Council



A BBREVIATIONS & A CRONYMS                                                        420
                                     CLARK2045
Abbreviation/     Deﬁnition
Acronym
CRESA             Clark Regional Emergency Services Agency
CRNHMP            Clark Regional Natural Hazard Mitigation Plan
CRWWD             Clark Regional Wastewater District
CTR               Commute Trip Reduction
C-TRAN            Clark County Public Transit Beneﬁt Area Authority, Regional transit agency
CWD               Clark County Clean Water Division
CWPP              Countywide Planning Policies
CWSP              Coordinated Water System Plan
DAHP              Department of Archeology and Historic Preservation
DCWTS             Discovery Corridor Wastewater Transmission System
DEIS              Draft Environmental Impact Statement
DNR               Washington State Department of Natural Resources
DOH               Washington State Department of Health
DRF               Document Recording Fees
EHD               Washington Environmental Health Disparities
EIS               Environmental Impact Statement
EJC               Environmental Justice Coalition
EMS               Emergency Medical Services
EPA               U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
ERU               Equivalent residential units
ESA               Endangered Species Act
ESD               Educational Services District
EV                Electric Vehicle
FAA               Federal Aviation Administration
FD                Fire District
FEIS              Final Environmental Impact Statement
FEMA              Federal Emergency Management Agency
FIF               Fire Impact Fee
FIRMS             Flood Insurance Rate Maps
FIS               Flood Insurance Studies
FPIAs             Focused Public Investment Areas
FVRLD             Fort Vancouver Regional Library District
GCP               General Comprehensive Plan
GCPD              Greater Clark Parks District (GCPD)
[GHG]             Goal or policy that addresses greenhouse gas emissions reduction and is part of the
                  Climate Element
GIS               Geographic Information System
GMA               Growth Management Act
GMHB              Western Washington Growth Management Hearings Board
GPM               Gallons per Minute


A BBREVIATIONS & A CRONYMS                                                                      421
                                  CLARK2045
Abbreviation/     Deﬁnition
Acronym
Granny ﬂats       Accessory dwelling units
GSP               General Sewer Plan
HAPT              Housing for All Planning Tool
HB                House Bill
HCM               Highway Capacity Manual
HCT               High Capacity Transit
HIA               Housing Inventory and Analysis
HOME              HOME Investment Partnership Funds
HOSAP             Clark County Housing Options Study and Action Plan
HOV               High Occupancy Vehicle
HPC               Clark County Historic Preservation Commission
HSS               Highways of Statewide Signiﬁcance
HUD               US Department of Housing and Urban Development
I/DD              Intellectual and Developmental Disability
ILA               Inter-Local Agreement
JMUSA             Washington State Joint Municipal Utility Services Act
K-5               Elementary School
LCFRB             Lower Columbia Fish Recovery Board
LEP               Limited English Proﬁciency
LINC              Lewis and Clark Railway
LLNW              Latino Leadership Northwest
LOS               Level-of-Service
LTS               Level of Trafﬁc Stress
Master Plan       Clark County Bicycle and Pedestrian Master Plan
Metro             Portland’s Regional Government
MGD               Millions of gallons per day
MMLOS             Multimodal Level of Service
MOU               Memorandum of Understanding
MPO               Metropolitan Planning Organization
MT CO2e           Metric Tons of Carbon Dioxide Equivalent
NAAP              Natural Areas Acquisition Plan
NEPA              National Environmental Policy Act
NFIP              National Flood Insurance Program
NHS               National Highway System
NIMBY             Not In My Back Yard
NMFS              National Marine Fisheries Service
NOAA              National Ocean & Atmospheric Administration
NPDES             National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
NPIAS             National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems



A BBREVIATIONS & A CRONYMS                                                422
                                   CLARK2045
Abbreviation/      Deﬁnition
Acronym
NRPA               National Recreation and Parks Association
NSA                Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area
ODOT               Oregon Department of Transportation
OFM                Washington State Ofﬁce of Financial Management
ORD                Ordinance
PAB                Clark County Parks Advisory Board
PDX                Portland International Airport
PHS                Priority Habitat and Species
PIC                Partners in Careers
PICA-WA            Paciﬁc Islander Community Association of Washington
PIF                Parks Impact Fees
PIHB               Paciﬁc Islander Health Board of WA
plexes             Du-plexes, Tri-plexes and Quadplexes
PMSA               Portland Metropolitan Statistical Area
Preferred          Recommended Comprehensive Plan Map
Alternative
Project VOICE      A program in partnership with ESD-112 and Vancouver Public Schools
PROS Plan          Clark County Parks, Recreation and Open Space Plan
PVJR               Portland Vancouver Junction Railroad
RCO                Washington State Recreation and Conservation Ofﬁce
RCW                Revised Code of Washington
REET               Real Estate Excise Tax
[RES]              Goal or policy that addresses climate resilience and is part of the Climate Element
RES                Resolution
RGSP               Regional General Sewer Plan
RTC                Southwest Washington Regional Transportation Council
RTP                Regional Transportation Plan
RTPO               Regional Transportation Planning Organization
School Districts   Battle Ground, Camas, Evergreen, Green Mountain, Hockinson, La Center,
                   Ridgeﬁeld, Vancouver, Washougal and Woodland School Districts
SCWTP              Salmon Creek Wastewater Treatment Plant
SDC                System Development Charges
SEPA               Washington State Environment Policy Act
SHPO               Washington State Historic Preservation Ofﬁcer
SIF                School Impact Fee
SMA                Washington State Shoreline Management Act of 1971
SMP                Clark County Shoreline Master Program
SR                 Washington State Routes
SSWS               Shorelines Of Statewide Signiﬁcance
SWCAA              Southwest Clean Air Agency


A BBREVIATIONS & A CRONYMS                                                                        423
                                  CLARK2045
Abbreviation/     Deﬁnition
Acronym
SWWDC             Southwest Washington Workforce Development Council
TCC               Technical Coordinating Committee
TDM               Transportation Demand Management
TDR               Transfer of Development Rights
TE                Transportation Element
TIF               Transportation Impact Fee
TIP               Transportation Improvement Program
TSP               Transportation Systems Plan
UCPB              Urban County Policy Board
UGA               Urban Growth Areas
UGB               Urban Growth Boundaries
USFWS             US Fish and Wildlife Service
UUA               Urban unincorporated area
v/c               Volume to Capacity Ratio
VBLM              Vacant Buildable Lands Model
VCCC              Vietnamese Community of Clark County
VHA               Vancouver Housing Authority
VMT               Vehicle Miles Traveled
VUGA              Vancouver Urban Growth Area
VUUA              Vancouver Unincorporated Urban Area
WAC               Washington Administrative Code
WDFW              Washington State Department of Fish and Wildlife
WDOE              Washington State Department of Ecology
West Van          West Van Materials Recovery Center
WRIAS             Water Resource Inventory Areas
WSDOT             Washinton State Department of Transportation
WSUV              Washington State University - Vancouver campus
WTP               Washington Transportation Plan
WTS               Washougal Transfer Station
WUCC              Water Utility Coordinating Committee
WUTC              Washington Utilities and Transportation Commission
WVUGA             Westside Service Area




A BBREVIATIONS & A CRONYMS                                             424
