CLARK COUNTY STAFF REPORT
DEPARTMENT:                             Auditor’s Office, Public Works

DATE:                                   Sept. 1, 2026


REQUESTED ACTION:
Authorize the Auditor’s Office and Public Works to submit grant applications to the Autzen Foundation,
BNSF Railway Foundation and other nonprofit organizations requesting funds in support of implementing
safety measures related to motorized bicycle, scooter and other micromobility devices.

☒ Consent
☐ Hearing
☐ County Manager


BACKGROUND

Background:
Due to an uptick in use and issues within county parks, trails and naturalized areas related to motorized
micromobility devices (bicycles, scooters, skateboards, etc.), Public Works has been working with the Sheriff’s
Office and other stakeholders to address safety concerns while still ensuring our parks and trails remain
accessible for all.
As a result of these conversations, Public Works is creating a new motorized micromobility device policy to
guide signage, strategic community engagement and educational programming to encourage safe use of
these devices in public spaces.
The grants program manager in the Auditor’s Office is partnering with Public Works to submit grant
applications for funding in support of these efforts, identifying nonprofit organizations that include Clark
County in their geographical scope, include local government eligibility and/or have histories of issuing grant
funding and/or donations within Southwest Washington that align with our project scope. Without funding
specifically for these efforts, Public Works does not have existing budget or staff capacity to implement any
policy, signage or programming related to micromobility device use on county properties.

The Autzen Foundation has a brief Letter of Interest due by Sept. 4, with a full grant application deadline of
Sept. 11, if invited. Submitting this application and others will allow the county to seek funding in support of
community safety. If awarded, grant funding would support selected components of the proposed safety
efforts. Grant programs currently being pursued offer limited funding amounts and are not expected to cover
the full program scope. Depending on award size, funds may be used for activities such as creating and
installing signage at county parks, natural areas, and trails; hiring a consultant to develop youth-focused
behavior‑change messaging around safe device use; and creating and distributing educational materials
throughout the community. Early implementation concepts include summer recreation safety presentations
at up to six of Clark County’s twelve public high schools, but the number and type of activities ultimately
delivered will depend entirely on available funding. Overall program costs related to signage, consultant
services, and educational outreach are estimated at up to $120,000, and actual goals and activities will be
scaled based on the funding secured.

Approval of this staff report demonstrates council’s support of the concept and submitting grant
applications to nonprofits as opportunities allow. It does not imply approval of an eventual grant
agreement. If the county's proposal is selected for funding, the Auditor’s Office/Public Works will
request council approval prior to entering into a grant agreement.




                                                                                                      rev. 4/2026
Review by applicable departments/offices:
The associated documents have been reviewed by Public Works Business Services, Parks and Nature
and the Auditor’s Office.

Prior council discussions/direction/approval:
There has been some discussion surrounding the issue of motorized micromobility devices; council
has requested a work session on the topic.

COUNCIL POLICY IMPLICATIONS

ADMINISTRATIVE POLICY IMPLICATIONS
Public Works will be working with other departments countywide to develop policies, code and other
relevant components regarding this topic to advance public safety protocols in our parks and trails.


COMMUNITY OUTREACH
The Clark County Sheriff’s Office and Public Health have created and began distributing some
materials about electric micromobility device usage, legality and safety. Public Works staff have been
responding to individual resident questions and complaints about using these devices on county
properties, but do not currently have the staff or budget capacity to create and distribute the
necessary policies, signage and outreach we believe is needed to most effectively address the
community’s growing concerns. This request will enable increased community outreach about safe,
legal and appropriate motorized micromobility device usage.

BUDGET IMPLICATIONS (IF APPLICABLE)
Identify any budget implications and impact and coordinate with the Budget Director. For additional
information and resources, please reference these Budget Office Resources:
    • Budget Office ClarkNet Site
    • 2026 Budget Resolution (PDF)
    • Operating & Capital Budget Actions and Required Approval Grid (PDF)
    • Position Changes Costing: Budget Office Position Changes Costing Request Form
    • New Positions Costing: New Position/Position Costing Request Form

For any new or changes in FTE, please include the costing documentation provided by the Budget Office as
an attachment to this Staff Report.

 YES/NO       BUDGET IMPACT
 YES          Operating Budget Impact
 NO           Capital Budget Impacts
 YES          Action falls within existing budget capacity.
 NO           Action falls within existing budget capacity but requires a change of purpose within existing
              appropriation. If YES, please complete the budget impact statement. If YES, please route
              this Staff Report through the Budget Director and then to the County Manager.

 YES          Additional budget capacity is necessary and will be requested at the next supplemental or
              annual budget. If YES, please complete the budget impact statement. If YES, please route
              this Staff Report through the Budget Director and then to the County Manager. This action
              will be referred to the county council with a recommendation from the county manager.
BUDGET IMPACT ATTACHMENT (IF APPLICABLE)
    •   Identify any budget implications and impact and coordinate with the Budget Director. For additional
        information and resources, please follow this link.
    •   Identify specific Questica Change Requests, if known, at the time of submission for documentation.

Part I: Narrative Explanation
Provide a succinct explanation of what the request does that has fiscal impact and the assumptions for
developing revenue and costing information.

Part II: Estimated Revenues
Identify types of revenues (grant, fees, etc.).

 FUND #/TITLE                2026 ANNUAL                   2027 ANNUAL             2028 ANNUAL
                             BUDGET                        BUDGET                  BUDGET
                             GF                   Total    GF             Total    GF                    Total
 1032                                             68,668                  26,268                         23,301



 TOTAL


Part III: Estimated Expenditures
Provide total expenditures for three (3) years.

 FUND #/TITLE       FTEs     2026 ANNUAL                   2027 ANNUAL             2028 ANNUAL
                             BUDGET                        BUDGET                  BUDGET
                             GF                   Total    GF            Total     GF                    Total
 1032                                             68,668                 26,268                          23,301



 TOTAL

Provide total expenditures by object category for three (3) years.

 FUND #/TITLE               2026 ANNUAL                    2027 ANNUAL             2028 ANNUAL
                            BUDGET                         BUDGET                  BUDGET
                            GF                    Total    GF             Total    GF                    Total
 Salary/benefits                                  7,668                   6,268                          13,301
 Contractual                                      41,000
 Supplies                                         20,000                  20,000                         10,000
 Travel
 Other controllables
 Capital outlays
 Inter-fund transfers
 Debt service
 TOTAL                                            68,668                  26,268                         23,301
