MEMO
DATE:       June 22, 2026
TO:         Clark County Councilors
CC:         Oliver Orjiako, Jose Alvarez and Susan Ellinger, Clark County
            Community Planning
FROM:       Elizabeth Decker, JET Planning
SUBJECT:    Manufactured Housing Park Code Concepts (HOSAP Implementation
            Package 3)


I. INTRODUCTION


Manufactured home parks (MHPs) offer a unique type of naturally occurring affordable
housing that predominately serves families that are lower-income, older adults, and/or living
on a fixed income, often in a tight-knit community setting. Clark County has 34 MHPs that are
home to just over 2,000 households in both urban growth areas and rural areas. Similar to
regional and national trends, many County parks are located on parcels that are eligible for
redevelopment at higher intensity for market-rate housing that could be more profitable for
property owners, leading to park sales, rent increases, and park closures in some cases. Aging
parks may also be facing costly infrastructure upgrade costs that push owners to sell and/or
increase rents. Park residents are uniquely vulnerable to displacement because while they own
their homes, they rent the space where homes are sited; there are often few alternatives when
space rents are increased or parks are closed because manufactured homes are difficult or
prohibitive to relocate, and there are few available spaces to move them.

The County imposed a moratorium in August 2025, renewed through February 2027, to allow
time to develop a zoning strategy and/or other regulatory approaches to better support
preservation of existing MHPs, to ensure their continued provision of affordable housing and
to minimize displacement. MHP study, preservation and support is also an adopted strategy in
the County’s Housing Options Study & Action Plan (HOSAP). MHP regulations will be
integrated with broader housing planning efforts as part of the Comprehensive Plan update
including implementing zoning code updates.




                                                           edecker@jetplanning.net / 503.705.3806
Manufactured Home Park Code Concepts                                                   Page 2 of 11
June 22, 2026


The primary recommendation is to introduce a new MHP overlay zone within urban growth
areas that prioritizes MHP uses and limits other residential uses to reduce redevelopment
pressure, similar to zoning tools used in several likeminded Washington cities including the
City of Vancouver looking to preserve MHPs and minimize displacement of vulnerable park
residents. The intent of this memo is to determine County Council support for a similar
zoning approach for Clark County and to solicit feedback on details of such an approach.

II. CONTEXT


A. Existing Manufactured Home Parks Across the County
There are currently 34 known manufactured home parks (MHPs) within Clark County’s
jurisdiction that account for 2,033 homes, including parks in urban and rural areas. (Note:
Parks are sometimes also called Manufactured Housing Communities (MHCs) or an older
term, Mobile Home Parks.) Across these MHPs:

   •   The size of parks varies significantly, ranging in size from 4 to 171 homes on sites 1.9
       to 30.2 acres, with an average of 51 homes and an average site size of 8.6 acres.
   •   A significant majority of parks are located inside unincorporated urban growth
       areas, primarily the Vancouver UGA. There are 25 parks or 74% within UGAs, totaling
       81% of total homes.
   •   MHPs are not zoned consistently which results in a majority of parks being
       nonconforming uses. Less than 50% of parks, or 16 total, are located in residential
       zones that currently permit MHPs. All of the parks located outside of UGAs are
       nonconforming uses because MHPs and development at that intensity are not
       permitted in rural zones. Within UGAs, a plurality of parks is zoned Residential (R)
       where MHPs are permitted uses, but there are nearly as many zoned Low Density
       Residential (R1) and other commercial and employment zones (GC, BP, MX).
   •   MHPs are developed at lower densities than other medium-density housing types.
       The average density for County urban MHPs is 6.8 homes per gross acres—slightly
       higher in Residential (R) zones where currently permitted—however, the maximum
       density in R zones is proposed at 24-36 homes per acre with the Comprehensive Plan
       updates. There is a cluster of parks along Highway 99, and the form and density of those
       parks is inconsistent with the Highway 99 Overlay District standards and
       redevelopment goals for the area.
Manufactured Home Park Code Concepts                                                   Page 3 of 11
June 22, 2026



B. Existing County Regulations for MHPs
County planning and zoning regulations allow options to permit manufactured home parks
and identify their role in providing affordable housing, but provide few mechanisms to protect
parks from closures.

Comprehensive Plan: Policies in the draft Comprehensive Plan address some aspects of
manufactured home park preservation. First, the Plan establishes that each jurisdiction
including the County must identify sufficient land for a “fair share” of lower-income housing
including manufactured home parks, and names manufactured home parks as one of the types
of development to be permitted to promote greater housing diversity (Policies 2.1.1 and 2.7.1).
The Plan also introduces a new goal to: “Prevent discrimination, address displacement, and
mitigate past harm in the development and maintenance of housing,” to be implemented by a
policy specifically supporting resident ownership of manufactured home parks and generally
evaluating the potential for displacement on lands proposed for rezoning or redevelopment
which can include manufactured home parks (Policies 2.9.2 and 2.9.3).

Housing Options Study & Action Plan: Recent housing planning efforts identified the
important role MHPs play in diversifying housing options that are affordable and incorporate
ownership opportunities, as well as the threats to parks’ continued stability. Adopted strategy
HO-23 calls for the County to:

       Study existing manufactured home parks, identify potential for displacement, and
       develop strategies to reduce or mitigate displacement. Consider development of a
       manufactured home park zone where other redevelopment options are limited, there
       are restrictions on discontinuing manufactured home parks uses, and/or enhanced
       notification, relocation assistance, and opportunities to convert to tenant ownership in
       the event of park closures.

Implementation of this strategy has been accelerated to respond to increased concerns about
potential park closures and displacement as part of the work plan during the moratorium and
Comprehensive Planning efforts; resulting zoning strategies from this effort will help to
implement this strategy.

Zoning Code: Current zoning limits where manufactured home parks can be located, and
allows parks in zones where a wide range of other residential uses are permitted that may
create redevelopment pressures. Manufactured home parks are defined as two or more
manufactured homes placed on a site, consistent with state law. (UDC 40.100.070) MHPs are
not permitted in any rural or resource zones outside of UGAs. Parks are permitted in all R
residential and OR office residential zones where a full range of other residential uses are
permitted at greater densities and dimensions than typical MHPs, but prohibited in low density
Manufactured Home Park Code Concepts                                                  Page 4 of 11
June 22, 2026


R1 residential zones and all nonresidential zones. (UDC 40.210, Table 40.220.010-1, Table
40.220.020-1) Development standards for manufactured home parks address densities,
setbacks, landscaping and recreational areas, and parking requirements. (UDC 40.260.140) A
Type II review is required for new parks through site plan review and review/approval. (UDC
40.510.040.B, 40.520.020.D.4) Parks outside of R residential zones—the majority of existing
parks—are regulated as nonconforming uses, which are permitted to continue if legally
established. (UDC 40.530.010) However, no expansion such as additional dwellings or
modifications beyond maintenance and repairs are permitted, which can limit MHP flexibility
and future viability. (URDC 40.530.010.F.5)

County Code: The only other code requirements for manufactured homes are a requirement
for a manufactured home placement permit for individual homes on an individual lot or space
within a park. (CCC 14.32A)

C. State Requirements
Outside of local zoning regulations, state regulations aim to cap rent increases to reduce
displacement pressures, to lessen impacts on park residents by providing extended notice
of park closures, and to allow opportunities for tenants to organize to purchase parks facing
closures.

   •   Recently enacted statewide caps on lot rent increases are intended to protect residents
       and minimize displacement risks by capping annual rent increases at 5%. (RCW
       59.20.370) The rent caps are among the most progressive nationally, though park
       owners warn that the rent caps may make parks less financially viable and increase
       closure risks. (https://www.cascadepbs.org/investigations/2025/06/wa-mobile-
       homeowners-advocates-react-to-new-rent-stabilization-law/)
   •   Park owners are required to provide a two-year closure notice to park residents to
       allow time for them to make plans to move or abandon their manufactured or mobile
       home, which may be shortened in specific enumerated ways such as paying residents
       relocation assistance. (RCW 59.20.080)
   •   The state has also recently adopted tenant opportunity to purchase (TOPO)
       provisions, requiring notice to tenants and an opportunity to form a tenant
       organization to negotiate for purchase of the park, and conversion to a resident-owned
       park. (RCW 59.20.305, .325) Some residents have found that the provisions are
       challenging to utilize, both to form an organization within the 70-day notice period and
       to assemble a competitive bid relative to private investors.
       (https://www.columbian.com/news/2026/mar/20/clark-county-residents-hoping-to-buy-
       mobile-home-parks-playing-a-losing-game/)
Manufactured Home Park Code Concepts                                                   Page 5 of 11
June 22, 2026


These regulations apply directly via state statute without the need to incorporate into the
County’s code, and shape the regulatory landscape for manufactured home parks and
residents. Together they appear to reduce potential displacement threats due to rent increases
or new management, but have not fully stabilized parks or supported conversions to resident
or nonprofit park ownership.

D. Non-Regulatory Approaches to Park Preservation
The most direct way to ensure a park is preserved is to change the ownership structure so that
residents are no longer subject to the park owners’ rent increases, redevelopment or closure
decisions. Alternative ownership models for parks include resident-owned communities
(ROCs) that function as cooperatives, which has been done successfully at a handful of
Washington parks with assistance from organizations such as ROC Northwest.
(https://nwcdc.coop/roc-northwest/) Nonprofit community land trusts are another model,
offering long-term, affordable ground leases for individual home owners such a potential
project by Evergreen Habitat for Humanity.
(https://www.opb.org/article/2026/02/23/evergreen-habitat-vancouver-mobile-homes/)
Successfully organizing to finance and purchase a park is, however, a significant hurdle for
most park residents, and there are limited grant or loan funds available from state or local
government sources to support these initiatives. Such efforts are also specific to individual
parks and contingent upon timing and owners’ willingness to sell. No Clark County MHPs have
converted to resident or nonprofit ownership to date, despite resident organizing efforts at
four parks, but there have been successful efforts across the state to convert parks to nonprofit
ownership, ownership by local housing authorities, and resident ownership.

III. CASE STUDIES


Communities across the state are experiencing similar challenges related to preserving
manufactured home parks and preventing resident displacement, particularly in regions
facing rising housing costs and development pressure. Cities looking to provide additional
regulatory protection for existing MHPs have implemented single-use zoning districts
exclusive to manufactured home parks. Key features of manufactured home park zones in
several Washington cities are compared in Table 1; cities have used both base zones and
overlay zones, which include varying development and density standards. Case law regarding
manufactured home park zones in the cities of Tumwater and Kenmore has established this
type of zoning as a legitimate practice for governments in Washington.

All of the examples reviewed would require a property owner to rezone a property before
future redevelopment as something other than a park, and a majority of them include specific
Manufactured Home Park Code Concepts                                                  Page 6 of 11
June 22, 2026


review criteria requiring applicants to demonstrate that there is no “reasonable use” of the
property as zoned and that the permitted uses are not “economically viable” at that location.

Table 2: Case Studies Summary

 City         Zoning       Uses           Ability to      Affordability   TDR           Other
              Structure    Permitted      Redevelop       Provisions
 Vancouver    Base         MHPs,          Rezone          None            None
              Zone         middle         required,
                           housing        must show
                           affordable     current use
                           at 60% AMI,    is not viable
                           STEP
                           housing (C)
 Ellensburg   Base zone    MHPs,          Rezone          None            None
                           home           required, no
                           occupations    specific
                                          criteria
 Bothell      Overlay      MHPs, STEP     Zoning and      None            None          Park-
              zone         housing,       comp plan                                     specific
                           day care,      amendment                                     standards
                           ADUs and       required, no                                  adopted for
                           similar        specific                                      two existing
                                          criteria                                      parks
 Belling-     Overlay      MHPs,          Rezone          None            None          Local
 ham          Zone         utilities,     required,                                     provisions
                           schools and    must show                                     for notice,
                           churches       current use                                   opportunity
                                          is not viable                                 to purchase
                                                                                        and
                                                                                        relocation
                                                                                        assistance
 Kenmore      Base         MHPs, one      Rezone          Bonus density   Yes, bonus    Standards
              Zone         single         required,       available for   density can   for existing
                           detached       must show       affordable      be            and new
                           dwelling       current use     units           transferred   parks
                                          is not viable
 Tumwater     Base zone    MHPs,          Rezone          None            Yes,
                           PUDs,          required,                       minimal
                           residential    must show                       allowance
                           adjacent       current use
                           uses           is not viable
Manufactured Home Park Code Concepts                                                   Page 7 of 11
June 22, 2026


The most relevant example for Clark County to consider is the new Manufactured Home
District in Vancouver, which includes most of the key features of a single-use zone noted
above. The district was adopted earlier this year with the Comprehensive Plan and zoning
code. (VMC 20.410.120) The new zone permits only manufactured home parks with allowance
for single family and middle housing only if permanently affordable at 60% AMI or below, with
transitional housing, permanent supportive housing and emergency housing and shelters
allowed conditionally, in line with new state legislation. All existing parks and new parks will
have this zoning. Parks are not subject to any minimum or maximum densities, with standards
for setbacks, spacing between homes, screening and buffering, landscaping, recreational
space, lot coverage and parking. A property owner seeking to redevelop a park to another
residential use would have to apply for a ‘use exception’ to rezone the property, demonstrating
through a discretionary review that the zone does not allow for “reasonable use of property” or
that the permitted uses are not “economically viable due to the property’s location, site
conditions, or surrounding development.” (VMC 20.450.085.C.10) The rezoning standards are
intended to allow for some alternatives if there is a demonstrable rationale for discontinuing
park use, to avoid takings claims by property owners.

IV. RECOMMENDATIONS & CONCEPTS


A new manufactured home park single-use overlay zone for existing MHPs is recommended
as the strongest regulatory strategy to preserve parks within urban areas, aligned with
enhanced Comprehensive Plan policies supporting park preservation. While a manufactured
home park zone does not by itself guarantee park viability, it does reduce redevelopment
pressure by permitting only parks unless and until the park owner applies to rezone the
property through a discretionary review and demonstrates that the current park and other
similar uses are not viable.

Parks should not serve as the only form of affordable housing permitted in the County due to
their relatively low density compared to multifamily buildings, but are worthy of targeted
protections to ensure diversity of housing options. Residents are highly vulnerable due to the
split ownership of the homes and lots, which emphasizes the importance of anti-displacement
efforts, and parks also provide a unique ownership and community living opportunity for
lower-income households.

Beyond regulations, long-term park viability can be supported through alternative ownership
models, such as conversion to a resident-owned cooperatives. The County’s role here is less
direct, but could include exploring financial mechanisms, advocating at the state level for
greater funds, engaging with partners versed in park conversions, and sharing information and
convening park residents and advocates.
Manufactured Home Park Code Concepts                                                   Page 8 of 11
June 22, 2026


The following components of the proposed MHP zoning approach were developed based on
consultant’s research on state laws and programs, case studies and interviews with City
planners detailed in Section III, and in consultation with manufactured home park nonprofit
advocates. County Council direction on the broader MHP zoning strategy and the specific
details is desired to inform Comprehensive Plan and zoning updates.

A. Focus Regulations on Parks Within Urban Growth Areas
MHP zoning should be focused on parks within urban growth areas, including the largest
concentration of parks within the Vancouver UGA, because MHPs are an urban-scale use.
Parks in urban areas face the greatest redevelopment pressures because of the range of other
development permitted. Parks in rural areas face less redevelopment pressure as
nonconforming uses that are already developed at higher intensities than are permitted in
rural zones; they also would not be eligible to convert to outright permitted uses under the
state planning framework for rural areas. Rural parks should retain their existing zoning.

B. Support with Foundation in the Comprehensive Plan
The Comprehensive Plan should establish the policy foundation and zoning framework for
manufactured home parks by:

   •   Expanding the draft manufactured home park preservation policy in the Housing
       Element to identify exclusive zoning and alternative ownership models as preservation
       strategies in addition to promoting resident-owned parks. (Policy 2.9.2)
   •   Listing and describing the proposed overlay zone in the Land Use Element. (Chapter 1)

C. Introduce a New Overlay Zone for Parks
Either a base zone or an overlay zone could be used to designate existing and future
manufactured home parks. A base zone replaces the existing zoning and Comprehensive Plan
designations to apply uniform design and development standards to all parks, while an overlay
supersedes the base zoning without need to change the existing base zoning or designation.
Because existing parks are located in a wide variety of zones, rezoning would create ‘spot
zoning’ particularly within commercial and employment districts. Therefore, the County
should implement an overlay zone, retaining the base zoning and designations for consistency
in the event of future park redevelopment. A single MHP overlay should be flexible enough to
apply to all parks, but individual parks should be reviewed during implementation to
determine if there is a compelling reason for a different zoning strategy such as large parks
with significant undeveloped acreage.
Manufactured Home Park Code Concepts                                                     Page 9 of 11
June 22, 2026



D. Require a Use Exception to Rezone Parks
A use exception requirement requires property owners to demonstrate that there is no
“reasonable use” of the property as zoned and that the permitted uses are not “economically
viable” at that location, effectively adding specific review criteria prior to converting an
existing MHP to another use. MHP resident advocates describe this step as slowing
redevelopment pressures, though not directly boosting MHP viability. A use exception adds a
hurdle to rezoning and redevelopment, but preserves owners’ property rights for potential
future opportunities if criteria are met. Similar use exception language should be
incorporated to provide greater durability for the proposed MHP zone.

E. Limit Permitted Uses to Manufactured Home Parks
The primary purpose of the MHP zone is to permit manufactured home parks, and to limit
redevelopment pressures from other residential or commercial uses. Only MHPs and
residential-adjacent uses, including some specific uses that are state-mandated in all
residential zones, should be permitted within the new zone, including transitional housing and
permanent supportive housing, per new state requirements in HB 2266 to permit in any zone
that permits residential dwellings.

There has also been discussion about allowing affordable housing on MHP sites alongside an
existing park or as redevelopment, such as developed by Habitat or other nonprofits. Council
direction is requested on a preferred approach:

   •   Allow development of several other housing types, with a requirement for long-term
       affordability restrictions for households making 60% AMI or less, which would provide
       additional flexibility on park sites and opportunities to provide similarly affordable
       housing options to supplement manufactured homes. Affordable housing
       redevelopment may be limited, but permitting it could reduce procedural hurdles for
       such redevelopment if such projects are proposed. One potential application could be
       the Habitat for the Hidden Village site.
   •   Retain focus on only MHPs to encourage preservation of existing parks and minimize
       displacement risks for residents, who often cannot move their manufactured dwellings
       and could lose the value of their homes if the site were redeveloped, even as other
       forms of affordable housing. There are limited sites developed with MHPs that provide
       a unique form of naturally occurring affordable housing, whereas there are much
       broader opportunities to develop affordable housing across R1, R and C zoned
       properties. The Use Exception (above) could include a specific provision to allow
       rezoning for residential development with affordability restrictions.
Manufactured Home Park Code Concepts                                                    Page 10 of 11
June 22, 2026



F. Revise and Simplify Development Standards
Dimensional and development standards should largely carry forward existing MHP use
standards in UDC 40.260.140 with minor modifications and new base zone standards to
address:

   •   Density range: No minimum density is recommended to avoid creating
       nonconformities for existing parks. Allow maximum density equal to the new R-24
       zone, up to 24 units per acre, which is nearly double any existing park’s density and
       allows considerable flexibility.
   •   Setbacks: Maintain existing setbacks for MHPs of 25 feet from public roads and 5 feet
       from shared property lines, with landscaping buffering.
   •   Park size: Remove minimum or maximum park size, currently 5-50 acres, to better
       accommodate existing parks sizes ranging from 2-30 acres. Size limits are not
       significantly related to park viability and are not consistently regulated in other cities.
   •   Placement of homes: Permit placement of manufactured homes of varying ages and
       recreational vehicles within parks consistent with state laws. (RCW 36.01.225)
   •   Parking: Adjust parking minimums to match proposed ratios in line with new state
       legislation, including one space per dwelling and zero spaces for units less than 1,200
       SF.
   •   Recreational areas: Explore whether to maintain or modify existing standard for
       percentage of recreational area required that increases with site density.
   •   Review required: Permit MHPs outright in the proposed zone subject to site plan
       review. Include provisions specifying which modifications to existing parks are exempt,
       subject to minor site plan, or trigger full site plan review.

G. Do Not Pursue a TDR Program
A minority of programs use a transfer of development rights (TDR) component; Kenmore ties
bonus density, to be used onsite or transferred, to provision of affordable housing or other
community benefits like parks. TDR can be a useful tool to balance property owners’
development rights while preserving existing manufactured home parks, perhaps at lower
densities that could be achieved through redevelopment. Such a program would likely be most
useful in a context where there is demand for more density than the current zoning districts
allow. Clark County has not recently seen significant demand for maximum densities already
permitted, and is broadly working towards increasing allowed densities in all residential zones
outright as part of planning to meet its housing goals. A TDR program is not recommended in
the County development context and could work at cross-purposes with other regulatory
updates to boost housing capacity.
Manufactured Home Park Code Concepts                                                 Page 11 of 11
June 22, 2026



IV. NEXT STEPS


County Council’s review and feedback on the proposed code concept and details at their July 1st
work session will inform the draft code updates for a new MHP zone if directed, intended to be
incorporated with development code updates implementing the new Comprehensive Plan later
in 2026. The draft code will be shared with stakeholders including nonprofit advocates, park
operators and park residents, many of whom testified in support of the moratorium and have a
strong interest in strategies to support MHPs. Final code will be revised based on stakeholder
feedback and Council input as part of the Comprehensive Plan adoption process.
