     Clark County Code                                                                                Page 1/4
     40.260 SPECIAL USES AND STANDARDS


                               40.260 SPECIAL USES AND STANDARDS


40.260.140    Manufactured Home Parks – Standards and Requirements
A.    Use. Uses within a manufactured home park permitted outright include:

    A manufactured home park may be placed or located on any parcel of land in any multifamily
(R-12, R-18, R-22, R-30, R-43, OR-15, OR-18, OR-22, OR-30 and OR-43) district upon approval of
the responsible official, and provided such manufactured home park is for residential use only.

      1.     Manufactured homes.

      2.    A Recreational vehicles, (camper, camp trailer, recreational coach, park models, and
      similar uses) may be placed in a manufactured home park provided the unit has an applicable
      Washington State Department of Labor and Industries (L&I) tag for the use.

      3.   Normal accessories for manufactured homes, such as awnings, patios, carports, ramadas,
      cabanas, or storage buildings, shall be allowed.

      4.    Accessory structures supporting the primary residential use, including community
      buildings, recreational facilities, and commercial uses.

     (Amended: Ord. 2018-10-02)

B.     Criteria for Locating a New Manufactured Home Park.

   The following criteria must be taken into consideration in the establishment of new manufactured
home parks:

     1.    Adequate buffering or screening may be required in order to make the manufactured
     home park compatible with adjacent surrounding residential uses. Buffering and screening
     shall be required when such parks abut commercial and industrial zones.

     2.    Manufactured home parks should not be located within areas less than five (5) acres nor
     more than fifty (50) acres in area, unless it is demonstrated to the responsible official that lesser
     or greater concentration of the use would be compatible with the surrounding property and its
     use, and that such variation is in the interest of the public health, safety and general welfare.

     3 1.  The park must have its primary direct access to a county or public road, which shall have a
     minimum right-of-way of sixty (60) feet, as shown on the master plan.

     (Amended: Ord. 2018-10-02)

C.     Manufactured Home Space Requirements.

     1.   Coverage. A manufactured home and all accessory structures shall not occupy more than fifty
     percent (50%) of the area of the manufactured home space.

     2.   Density. Manufactured homes shall not exceed the maximum density of the zoning district.
     Density shall be calculated on the gross area of the park. No minimum density shall apply to
     manufactured home parks.

     3.    Setbacks. No manufactured home or accessory thereto shall be located any closer than twenty-
     five (25) ten (10) feet from a park property line abutting on a public street or road, five (5) feet from


July 15, 2026 Draft
     Clark County Code                                                                                Page 2/4
     40.260 SPECIAL USES AND STANDARDS


     all other park property lines and five (5) feet from any such areas as a park street, a common parking
     area, or a common walkway.

     4.   Spacing. A manufactured home shall be separated from an adjacent manufactured home by a
     minimum of ten (10) feet.

     5.   Overnight Spaces. Not more than five percent (5%) of the total manufactured home park
     area may be used to accommodate persons wishing to park their manufactured home or
     camping vehicles overnight.

     6 5.   Parking. Two (2) Off-street parking spaces shall be provided for each manufactured home
     space consistent with Section 40.340.010, either on the manufactured home space or within one
     hundred (100) feet thereof, in the manufactured home park. Each parking space shall not be less
     than nine (9) by twenty (20) feet in size.

     (Amended: Ord. 2018-10-02)

D.        Manufactured Home Park Requirements.

     1.      Park Streets and Walkways.

            a.     Park Streets. A park street shall connect each manufactured home space to a public road.
            The park street shall be a minimum of thirty (30) feet in width, with a paved surface width of at
            least twenty-four (24) feet.

            b.   Walkways. Walkways of not less than forty-four (44) inches in width shall be provided
            from each manufactured home space to any service building, recreation area, and parking area.

            c.   Paving. Park streets shall be paved with crushed rock base asphalt or concrete surfacing.

     2.    Buffering or Screening. Buffering or screening, if required to make the manufactured home
     park compatible with its adjacent surrounding uses, is required around the perimeter of the
     property to make the manufactured home park compatible with its adjacent surrounding uses.
     Buffering or screening shall be a sight-obscuring fence, wall, evergreen, or other suitable planting.
     Where walls or fences are required along boundaries or public roads, the walls or fences shall be set
     back from the property lines to conform with setbacks for structures in the basic zone. Evergreen
     planting shall not be less than five (5) feet in height, and shall be maintained in a healthy living
     condition for the life of the manufactured home park. All walls and fences shall be a minimum of
     five (5) feet in height and shall be approved by the responsible official.

     3.    Landscaping. There shall be landscaping provided within the front and side setback areas and
     all open areas in the manufactured home park not otherwise used. Landscaping shall meet the
     requirements of Section 40.320.010.

     4.   Signs. Signs shall comply with the provisions of Chapter 40.310, specifically Section
     40.310.010(I).

     5.    Recreational Area. A recreational area shall be a contiguous, improved area, and be suitably
     maintained for recreational purposes. The recreational area shall contain a minimum of two
     hundred (200) square feet of space per manufactured home. It may contain a mix of
     landscaping, lawn area, pedestrian paths, and/or paved courtyard area, and recreational
     amenities. Impervious elements shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the total recreational
     area. Such land shall be determined on a gross area basis. The amount of land to be established



July 15, 2026 Draft
    Clark County Code                                                                                 Page 3/4
    40.260 SPECIAL USES AND STANDARDS


     as recreational shall be determined by dividing the number of dwelling units into the gross
     development area. The following minimum areas shall be required:

       Dwelling Units per Gross Acre                    Recreational Area Required
                            5 to 6                                            0%
                            7 to 9                                            3%
                           10 to 11                                           5%
                         12 and over                                          8%

     6.    Accessories. Structures located on a manufactured home space, in addition to the manufactured
     home, shall be limited to the normal accessories, as set forth under Section 40.260.140(A). No other
     structural additions shall be built onto or become part of any manufactured home, and no
     manufactured home shall support any building in any manner.

     7.  Manufactured Home Pads. Pads, stands, strips or rails adequate for the support of the
     manufactured home shall be installed.

     8.    Manufactured Home Skirting. All manufactured homes within the manufactured home park
     shall be skirted on their lower perimeter by fire-resistant siding, if occupied for a period of more than
     ninety (90) days.

    (Amended: Ord. 2009-03-02; Ord. 2018-10-02)

E.     Repair and Replacement. The repair or replacement of existing manufactured homes within
an existing manufactured home park, including nonconforming parks, shall be allowed as provided
in this section.

     1.    Repair of existing units. The repair or rehabilitation of an existing manufactured home
     shall be permitted outright.

     2.   Replacement of existing units. The replacement of an existing manufactured home with a
     new manufactured home is permitted outright.

F.    Expansion. Existing manufactured home parks may be expanded through the addition of
additional dwelling units or the expansion of their existing area.

       1.   The addition of a manufactured home to an existing manufactured home park
       development is permitted outright.

       2.   The expansion of an existing manufactured home park is allowed subject to site plan
       approval by the responsible official.

     3.   Additional dwellings and expansion areas shall comply with all applicable development
     standards of this section as well as the underlying zoning district.

E G.      Manufactured Home Park Approval Criteria – Responsible Official Approval.

       1.     New manufactured home parks may be permitted in any multifamily district upon require
       site plan approval by the responsible official. The responsible official shall find that the internal
       design proposed shall separate traffic pattern from outdoor living or recreational areas, and will
       group the service facilities (such as the laundry and service buildings). Further, such approval shall



July 15, 2026 Draft
    Clark County Code                                                                              Page 4/4
    40.260 SPECIAL USES AND STANDARDS


      be in the best interest of the public health, safety and general welfare. No manufactured home park
      shall be constructed without first obtaining site plan approval from the responsible official.

      F 2.    Manufactured Home Park Site Plan Submittal Requirements. In addition to the
      submittal requirements for site plan review, an application for a new manufactured home park shall
      include a plot plan of the proposed park.

    (Amended: Ord. 2018-10-02)




July 15, 2026 Draft
