                                                                  Parks & Recreation
                                                                 Advisory Commission


                                                                       Members
Parks & Recreation Advisory Commission                             Jenny Thompson, Chair
                                                                  Angilo Fletcher, Vice Chair
Meeting Agenda
September 23, 2026                                                     Jeremy Robbins
4:00 PM                                                                  Stephen Wille
                                                                          James Luce
City Hall                                                               Valerie Striplin
                                                                        AJ Panter, VPS
Aspen Room                                                             Cale Piland, EPS
415 W. 6th Street
Vancouver, WA

Virtual Meeting Credentials:


Join the meeting now
Meeting ID: 220 841 959 653
Passcode: vXa8CB

                                                                    Parks, Recreation and
                                                                 Cultural Services Department
1. Call to Order and Roll Call                                   P.O. Box 1995 Vancouver, WA
                                                                              98668
2. Approval of Minutes                                                    360-487-8311
                                                                            TTY: 711
   a. Approval of the August 19, 2026 PRAC Meeting Minutes.            cityofvancouver.us

3. Community Forum
   To provide public testimony, please see instructions below.

4. Workshop

   a. Sustainable Funding Concepts and Approach

   b. Sustainable Funding History and Context

   c. Break

   d. PRCS Comprehensive Plan Goals and Priorities

   e. Community Engagement

   f. Discussion: Engagement, Roles, and Opportunities for
      PRAC




                                                                                           Page 1 of 40
5. Commission and Staff Reports

     a. Department Director

     b. Commission Chair

     c. Evergreen School District

     d. Vancouver Public School

     e. Parks Foundation

6. Open Discussion & New Business

Adjournment


Community Forum Instructions

The public is invited to speak regarding any issue. Members of the public testifying are asked to limit testimony to
three minutes. There are three ways to provide comments:

     1. In Writing: Public comments can be submitted in writing (name, address, contact information and comments)
        via email to parksrecculture@cityofvancouver.us by 5 pm on the day before the meeting.
     2. Remotely: Pre-register by phone at 360-487-8311 or email parksrecculture@cityofvancouver.us by 5pm the
        day before the meeting
     3. In Person: Pre-register by phone at 360-487-8311 or email parksrecculture@cityofvancouver.us by 5pm the
        day before the meeting or fill out a Public Comment form in person prior to the start of the Community
        Communications portion of the meeting



City Hall is served by C-TRAN. Route information and schedules are available online at www.c-tran.com. You also
may reach C-TRAN at (360) 695-0123 for more information on times, fares, and routes.

Anyone needing language interpretation services or accommodations with a disability at a Vancouver City Council
meeting may contact the City Manager's staff at (360) 487-8600 (RELAY: 711). Assistive listening devices and live
Closed Captioning are available for the deaf, hard of hearing and general public use. Please notify a staff person if
you wish to use one of the devices. Every attempt at reasonable accommodation will be made. To request this
agenda in another format, please also contact the phone numbers listed above.




To request accommodation or other formats, please contact: Alicia Nilo | 360-487-8310 | TTY: 711 |
parksrecculture@cityofvancouver.us


                                                                                                             Page 2 of 40
                                                           Parks and Recreation
                                                           Advisory Commission

Meeting Minutes                                                                         Members
Wednesday, August 19, 2026                                                               Jenny Thompson
                                                                                          President, PFCC
4:30 p.m., City Hall
Aspen Room                                                                                Angilo Fletcher
                                                                                          Vice President

                                                                                         Jeremy Robbins
Commissioners Present:
                                                                                          Stephen Wille
Striplin, Thompson, Wille, Fletcher, Robbins, Ebie, Luce                                  Valerie Striplin
                                                                                            James Luce
Commissioners Absent:                                                                       Terah Ebie
Piland and Panter                                                                         AJ Panter, VPS
                                                                                         Cale Piland, EPS
Item 1: Call to Order
Chair Thompson called the Parks and Recreation Advisory Commission
(PRAC) regular meeting to order at 4:32p.m. in the Aspen Room at City
Hall and online via Microsoft Teams. Piland and Panter were absent.

Item 2: Approval of Minutes
PRAC approved June 2026, meeting minutes by consensus with minor
changes.

Item 3: Public Comment
None Presented

Item 4: Workshops
a. Introduction to Lynde Wallick, Senior Parks Planner
Perlick introduced Lynde Wallick, Senior Parks Planner for PRCS, filling in
the previous position of Monica Tubberville.                                           Parks, Recreation and
                                                                                         Cultural Services
Wallick shared her background working for Clark County Parks and                           Department
Nature as a parks and trails planner. Her main roles are in park policy,
park design, and acquisition planning, as well as strategic planning and
                                                                                           P.O. Box 1995
funding.
                                                                                       Vancouver, WA 98668
                                                                                           360-487-8311
Significant duties include assessing community needs and priorities while                     TTY: 711
balancing operational resources. More information on the scope of the                   cityofvancouver.us
PRCS Comprehensive Plan will be shared in coming months.




                           To request accommodation or other formats, please contact:
                  Alicia Nilo | 360-487-8311 | TTY: 711 | parksrecculture@cityofvancouver.us


                                                                                                       Page 3 of 40
                                                                          Parks and Recreation Advisory Commission
                                                                                                   Meeting Minutes
                                                                                                         Page 2 of 5



b. Budget Update

Perlick and Stokke provided an overview, approach, and key objectives of the PRCS 2027-2028 Biennial Budget
process. Perlick acknowledged and reviewed the set of measures outlining the FTE in the department between
2007 and 2025. The staffing data shows that department staffing has been reduced by 35.5 FTEs despite
population growth of over 47,000 residents in that period. This is a reduction of 37.5% in department FTEs from
2007-2025.

Core services – stable, efficient, and mission-aligned

   •   Maintain current core service levels and facility schedules
   •   Deploy strategic technology to improve efficiency
   •   Improve access and inclusion efforts
   •   Increase park repair and operations support
   •   Maximize capital resources for current project priorities
Approach and key objectives emphasize a future focus and optimization of dedicated revenues and plans for
growth.

   •   Establish Inspire Vancouver program
   •   Renovation and operating plan for the arts hub
   •   Advance Climate Action Framework strategies focused on natural systems
   •   Strategic update of PRCS comprehensive plan with future focus
   •   Create capacity to focus on growth and stable funding
Areas of focus in the PRCS Comprehensive Plan update include a strategic scope concept and ensure that work
supports strategic funding efforts. This includes updating the impact fee program, including non-residential
fees, reviewing standards to reflect best practices with increasingly urban park systems, updated planning for
trails and other special facilities, and strategic outreach.

Natural systems focus would require advancing innovative approaches to landscape management to support
climate, pollinator, and other policies and goals. Trees and green spaces are the highest rated funding priority
in recent climate priorities surveys, and highly rated in Council prioritization exercise. The proposal includes
updated citywide strategy and implementation. An open discussion was held regarding commissioner
recommendations for the natural Systems Coordinator position.

Motion: Striplin made a motion to submit a letter of support from PRAC for the RCO planning grant application.
The motion was seconded by Ebie and unanimously approved.

Other areas of focus and possible funding sources were outlined by Stokke.

The guiding values for Capital Budget involve more flexible use of resources to achieve balanced priorities.

   •   Complete priority community projects
   •   Address major capital maintenance needs
   •   Continue playground replacement program
   •   Maintain capacity for strategic acquisitions
   •   Advance trails program
   •   Increase natural systems efforts


                                                                                                          Page 4 of 40
                                                                          Parks and Recreation Advisory Commission
                                                                                                   Meeting Minutes
                                                                                                         Page 3 of 5




   •    Plan for the future
A summary of Capital Budget project details was shared for current projects, new requests, and funding sources.

A budget process overview was shared, outlining key steps and presentation dates:

   •    Oct 1 – City Manager Recommended Budget Published
   •    Oct 12 – City Council Operating Budget Workshop
   •    Oct 26 - City Council Capital Budget Workshop
   •    Nov 2 - City Council 1st Reading – Biennium Budget
   •    Nov 16 - City Council Public Hearing and Adoption of Biennium Budget

c. Playground Surfacing Project Update
Snyder shared an overview of the surfacing replacement at Gretchen Fraser, MyPark, and Leach Park with
documentation of before and after the projects to replace the tile systems.

Commissioners thanked Snyder for the update on improvements and commended the new look to the parks.

d. Arts Hub Update
Perlick shared a summary of the Vancouver Arts Hub framework, focusing on coordinated operating and
capital recommendations. The recommended path forward builds on the reuse study and initial activation, is
community informed, aligns with best practices and comparable facilities, prioritizes core improvements, and
sets the stage for future investments.

Community priorities guiding the project focus on performance, community and multicultural events spaces:

    •   Multicultural events
    •   Gallery exhibits
    •   Studio theater
    •   Café/retail
    •   Outdoor performance
    •   Children’s art
    •   Dance studios
Operating model development is informed by guiding decisions based on research and real-time learning. Best
practices were researched from 5 similar facilities which all included City ownership role with operating
partners and nonprofit operator agreements. The current building activation is guided by insights from the
current operator, interviews with 18 users from 14 arts and culture organizations, and review of the building
use spaces.

The proposed operating model based on best practices and the current activation is to share investment and
control between the City and an operator.

   •    Operator Role:
            o Single, mission-aligned nonprofit
            o Manage programming, rentals, day-to-day operations
   •    City Role:
            o Maintain capital assets
            o Support operating costs with operator

                                                                                                          Page 5 of 40
                                                                              Parks and Recreation Advisory Commission
                                                                                                       Meeting Minutes
                                                                                                             Page 4 of 5



           o   Define direction, performance measures
A summary of the Phase 1 Framework was shared. Essential improvements include improving ADA accessibility,
seismic enhancements, improving energy performance and building capacity, increasing occupancy, and new
all-user restrooms.

Lower-level improvements include spaces with a new multipurpose space, improving existing multipurpose
spaces, and a shared workshop. Upper-level improvements include spaces with new multipurpose spaces, a
new studio theater, and a flexible gallery/event space.

A summary of costs analysis and estimates through the end of 2028 was shared, detailing Phase 1 construction
costs and potential future investments.

A timeline with proposed framework was shared, with next steps including the selection of an operator, moving
from master planning to design with City Council direction and community feedback in 2027, and Phase 1
construction estimated to begin in 2028.

Discussion and next touchpoints with Council include the biennial budget submissions in capital and operating,
and review and approval of the contract for the operator. Luce asked who the current operator is, and Perlick
shared that it is Christine Richardson of The Arts Centered.

Item 5: Commission and Staff Reports
a. Director’s Report
We will be holding a PRAC Special Meeting on Wednesday, 9/23 from 4pm – 6pm. Meeting details will go out
to commissioners soon.

Parks: We hosted our first in-person open house for the new community park coming to east Vancouver last
weekend. About 60 people came by to learn about the project and provide input on the activities and amenities
they would like to see at the future park. There is also an online open house and survey available now through
Aug. 30 on the project webpage. Our next open house will be Oct. 3 at Vancouver Innovation Center, where
we’ll present early concepts for review.

You’re invited to The Downs Park Reopening this Saturday, Aug. 22 from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. We’ll be joining the
neighborhood association and Fourth Plain Forward’s Art & Nature in the Park event to celebrate the new
ARPA-funded improvements at the park and thank the community for their support throughout the process.

Recreation: Congratulations to our summer recreation teams, who are wrapping up a full season of camps at
seven different sites. We hosted day camps at Marshall Center and Fircrest Elementary; Access to Recreation
camps at Truman Elementary; rock climbing camps at Firstenburg Center; and our free Summer Playgrounds
camps at Crestline, Evergreen, and Hough. Our recreation teams also helped coordinate eight partner camps
to expand access to quality, affordable summer recreation for local families.

We’re gearing up for annual maintenance closures at both community centers. Firstenburg pool and
gymnasium will be closed Aug. 24-29, and Marshall pool will be closed Aug. 31-Sept. 7. Yearly closures can be
challenging but they are a critical part of maintaining these important community assets.

Fall registration is open and we’ve got a lot of activities for all ages. In addition to our usual courses, we’re
offering a full series of family activities at Firstenburg including bingo, trivia, pickleball, puzzle dash, a family
spooktacular dance, and pizza with Santa.


                                                                                                              Page 6 of 40
                                                                          Parks and Recreation Advisory Commission
                                                                                                   Meeting Minutes
                                                                                                         Page 5 of 5



Cultural Services: Congratulations to the cultural services team on a fantastic Vancouver Arts & Music Festival!
With special event permitting and logistics, volunteer management, and a focus on celebrating culture, arts
and heritage, this event showcased the skill and expertise of the whole cultural services division.

We have two more Friday Night Movies in the Parks. This week is Zootopia 2 at Bagley Park and next Friday is
the ASL version of Superman at Columbia Tech Center Park. Huge thanks to Erik Miletich and his team for their
exceptional work managing 10 concerts and 4 movies at 5 Vancouver parks this summer, along with the special
America250 celebration back in July.

The first round of Inspire Vancouver grants are open for culture, arts, heritage and science funding in 2026-27.
The team is currently hosting a series of free grant workshops to help organizations prepare. Applications close
on Sept. 10, and awards will be announced in the fall.

Perlick shared that the regional countywide funding team has taken a respite for the summer, and there will
be another meeting in the coming weeks. Luce requested updates as soon as they are available.

Perlick shared that over a month ago, there was a fire vandalism at Oakbrook Community Park, damaging the
slide and surfacing with over $100k of damage for removal and replacement. We have not received any
actional information or reports. The site is currently fenced off for repairs. The slide is scheduled to arrive
sometime in October, with the project repaired by the end of the year. As a neighbor, Robbins shared that it
was heartbreaking news to receive, but the park is back in use in the non-effected areas. Robbins gave a
shoutout for the team for working so quickly to initiate repairs. Perlick shared that community members have
all come together to express their support for efforts in repairing the park.

b. Chair Report
The VAMF was a great success, well attended, with great performances. Thompson was able to volunteer for
the event and gave kudos to staff and community volunteers.

c. Evergreen School District Report
None presented.

d. Vancouver Public School Report
None presented.

e. Parks Foundation Report
Thompson encouraged commissioners to follow the Parks Foundation on social media for current updates.

Item 11: Open Discussion & New Business
Robbins asked if there was any information regarding a community center in Camas or Ridgefield. Perlick
shared that we have advised them on their community center plan, but it is not known what stage they are at
with their fundraising drive.

ADJOURNED
With no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 5:46pm




                                                                                                          Page 7 of 40
Regional Parks Funding
Task Team Report
May 2026

            Clark County Public Works - Parks & Nature Division
            1300 Franklin Street, Vancouver, WA 98660
            www.clark.wa.gov/public-works/clark-county-parks


                                                             Page 8 of 40
                                                                                5/20/2026


Acknowledgements – Regional Funding Task Team
The preparation of this report was made possible through the support and direction of the
elected officials and staff on the Regional Funding Task Team.

Clark County Councilors:                        Washougal City Councilors:
Glen Yung                                       Michelle Wagner
Alt: Matt Little                                Alt: David Fritz
                                                Alt: Molly Coston
Vancouver City Councilor:
Diana Perez
                                                Ridgefield City Councilor:
Camas City Councilor:
                                                Rian Davis
Tim Hein

Battle Ground City Councilors:
Jeanie Kuypers
Alt: Victoria Ferrer

The department also recognizes the contributions of key staff members whose efforts were
essential to completing this project, including:

Ross Hoover, Clark County
Evelyn Ives, Clark County
David Perlick, City of Vancouver
Katherine Stokke, City of Vancouver
Corey Crownhart, City of Ridgefield
Chris Witkowski, City of Camas
Joanna Martin, City of Battle Ground
Kris Swanson, City of Battle Ground
Joe Walsh, City of Washougal
Tracy Coleman, City of La Center




                                            1


                                                                                            Page 9 of 40
                                                                                  5/20/2026


Introduction
Clark County Parks and Nature enriches communities by creating and stewarding parks
that promote health and wellness, boost economic vitality, preserve natural areas, and
ensure access to the outdoors for all. With over 100 parks in its system, Clark County Parks
and Nature provides public access to special places, from beaches along the Columbia
River, to home plates on little league fields. The parks system also protects public access
to nature by acquiring, building, and maintaining trailheads and trails in forests and along
rivers that connect people with the outdoors. The County’s nine regional parks received an
estimated 2 million visits in 2025. Clark County Parks and Nature Division has grown into a
large, developed park system over decades. But, as the County population continues to
grow, the funding sources for parks operations and maintenance budgets have not kept
pace with rising costs and growing community needs. Without a new source for operations
and maintenance, the County will not be able to develop new parks and eventually will
have to make difficult decisions to close parks where safe and clean conditions cannot be
maintained.

In 2025, Clark County Council directed the formation of a regional parks task team to
tackle current and future challenges presented by lack of adequate park funding options.
The regional task team is made up of city council representatives and staff from:
Vancouver, Ridgefield, Battle Ground, Camas, Washougal and La Center as well as
representatives from Clark County. The task team set out to understand the needs of each
local park system and evaluate dedicated park funding options for the Clark County region
based on a review of models in other regions throughout the country. The team convened a
total of ten meetings between October 2025 to April 2026 and developed this report
summarizing the information discussed during that time.

Clark County’s Urgent Need
Clark County’s Parks and Nature Division funds park operations and maintenance from
three main sources: 1) The Greater Clark Parks District (GCPD); 2) park-generated revenue
from paid parking, shelter reservations, and sport field rentals; and 3) the County’s general
fund. These funding sources have generally not kept pace with expenses. The costs of
utilities, labor, materials and supplies are increasing rapidly. This is due to many factors
including inflation and changes in the labor market. Additionally, because of constraints on
funding sources, some of Clark County’s park properties are getting more attention than
others, which has caused an imbalance within the system.




                                              1


                                                                                           Page 10 of 40
                                                                                  5/20/2026


Revenue Sources
The Greater Clark Park District (GCPD) is a voter-approved Metropolitan Park District (MPD)
created in 2005. The district is not County-wide; rather, it encompasses just the
unincorporated urban growth area of Vancouver, which at the time was growing rapidly in
population, but had few developed park properties. Generally, funding generated within the
park boundary can only be used for parks within the boundary. The formation of the GCPD
along with its funding mechanisms enabled the County to build 30 new parks and operate
and maintain those parks over the last 20 years. The levy is a stable and parks-dedicated
funding source. The main challenge is that these funds cannot be used outside of the
GCPD.

There are eight large, regional parks outside of the GCPD that rely only on general funds and
park-generated revenue. These regional parks are: Lewisville, Daybreak, Lucia Falls,
Moulton Falls, Lacamas, Whipple Creek, Vancouver Lake, and Frenchman’s Bar. Not only
are these the most heavily used parks in the County system, but they also are some of the
oldest, largest, and most remote parks. They require more staff time for operations and
maintenance to keep the parks safe and clean. Unfortunately, the funding sources for
these parks have become limited over time.

Currently, park-generated revenue covers about 12% of total park operating expenses, and
the general fund only covers about 23% (see Figure 1).




      Figure 1: Clark County Parks Operations and Maintenance funding sources.

                                             2


                                                                                          Page 11 of 40
                                                                                  5/20/2026


Expenses
Over the years, Clark County has taken many measures to reduce costs, including reducing
staffing levels. Currently, the County employs 37 operations and maintenance staff to
maintain 7,166 acres of park land. Compared to other parks agencies of similar size, this
level of staffing is 80% less than the national median. Compared to other park agencies,
regardless of size, the County’s staffing level is 92% less than the national median (see
Figure 2). Figure 2 shows the ratio of full-time employees (FTEs) per 10,000 residents based
on data collected by the National Recreation and Park Association (NRPA) in 2024.


                                FTE per 10,000 residents
                              compared to national median
                                                             8.6


                                               3.6
                                   0.69


                            Clark County   500,000 or More     All Agencies

Figure 2: Comparison of staffing ratio to residents for park system reported in the 2024
                            NRPA Park Metrics database.

Staffing levels are lower, but the usage of County parks has increased with the rapidly
expanding residential population. Increased usage means more garbage, more vandalism,
and more wear and tear on facilities. Using task tracking software, the County has
documented that 33% of daily tasks assigned to staff cannot be completed and only the
most urgent maintenance and repairs are being done. Graffiti and vandalism can’t be
addressed as quickly, if at all. Bathrooms must be closed more frequently due to damage
or disrepair. The list of deferred repairs continues to grow and over time becomes more
costly to repair.

For the last seven years, the County has had to dip into reserve funds to cover the gap
between regional parks’ available funding and their actual operational costs (see Figure 3).




                                                3


                                                                                           Page 12 of 40
                                                                                     5/20/2026


                             Regional Parks Revenues and Expenditures
                          3,500,000
                          3,000,000
                          2,500,000


                Dollars
                          2,000,000
                                                                           Revenue
                          1,500,000
                                                                           Expense
                          1,000,000
                           500,000
                                 0
                                      2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025

 Figure 3: Regional parks revenues and expenditures between 2019 and 2025, without
                 the Council-approved subsidies from reserve funds.



Expense Reductions and Revenue Enhancement Strategies
With an already lean staff, the County has had to turn to other measures to try to reduce
the budget deficit. In 2025, County Council approved a resolution to increase park user
fees, such as parking and picnic shelter reservations, which had not increased since 2010.
Additionally, starting in July 2025, Park Management reduced irrigation of natural turf areas
in Clark County-owned and operated parks. The effort reduced water usage by about 40%
and saved approximately $116,000. Furthermore, in 2026, Council also approved the
creation of a new partnerships position for the Parks and Nature Division. This position is
solely focused on new contracts with park partner organizations to produce revenue and
offset operating expenditures.

These measures have helped to reduce the budget deficit in the meantime, but aren’t
enough to close the level of service gaps and will not be enough to address future needs.



Cities and County Data Evaluation
To better understand the status quo of the other regional park providers in the county, the
task team learned about each agency’s unique park system. Together, the task team
members compiled data from each of their park systems to benchmark against national
metrics. Benchmarking metrics were pulled from the NRPA 2024 Annual Report based on
data from member agencies across the country. Each park system compared their metrics
to the national median for communities of their size.




                                                     4


                                                                                            Page 13 of 40
                                                                                               5/20/2026


One shared strength of our region is the amount of open spaces and natural resources. The
amount of park-owned properties, including open spaces or natural areas, is high
compared to national levels. Figure 4 shows little to no gap existing for the metric of total
parkland per 1,000 residents. For Clark County and the City of Camas, their metrics are
significantly above national median levels.


                      Acres of Parkland per 1,000 residents - All Park
                                 Sites (incl. Open Spaces)
             80
                                        68.3
             70
             60
             50
             40
             30   20.1
             20       9.8                  10.9 12.4 10.9         12.9   11.1 12.9      12.9
                             8.6 9.2                           6.2                   6.6
             10
              0
                   Clark    Vancouver   Camas      Battle    Washougal Ridgefield    Yacolt
                  County                           Ground

                            Agency Data        National Median from pop. Range

 Figure 4: The comparison between agency data and national median data (based on
               population size) for acres of parkland per 1,000 residents.

Other metrics varied widely between agencies, depending on the size and number of
parks each agency maintains and the level of development within the city. One
commonality of all the park agencies in Clark County is that they are funded and staffed
below the National Median for agencies of their size.

The figures prepared below are part of a gap analysis conducted using the national median
benchmarking. Park system data are plotted in orange and the gap to meet the national
median is plotted in blue. The vertical scale is zero to 100 percent, with 100 percent
representing the national median value. For example, if the national median value is 100
parks facilities per agency and the City of Vancouver’s count was 60 parks, then the chart
would show the City of Vancouver at 60 percent and the gap at 40 percent.

As shown in Figure 5, all the task team’s park systems are below national median levels for
operating expenditures from regions with similar populations. Since some of the park
system providers in Clark County don’t provide recreation programming, the Figure 5
comparisons do not include recreational programming costs.

                                                    5


                                                                                                      Page 14 of 40
                                                                                                    5/20/2026




                       Parks Operating Expenditures per Capita
          Pop. Range
           Median      $51.73     $94.27      $112.38       $112.38   $139.87   $139.87   $139.87
               100%
                90%
                80%                           $42.70        $50.94              $54.81
                70%               $52.63
                       $35.69                                          $94.54             $103.94
                60%
                50%
                40%
                30%                           $69.68        $61.44              $85.06
                20%               $41.64
                       $16.04                                          $45.33              $35.93
                10%
                 0%
                        Clark   Vancouver     Camas         Battle Washougal Ridgefield    Yacolt
                       County                               Ground

                                Agency Data        Gap from Pop. Range Median

   Figure 5: The percentage gap between agency data and the national median data
 (based on population size) for operating expenditures per capita for parks only (does
                          not include recreation expenses)

In addition to operating expenditures, staffing levels are also all below national median
levels. As shown in Figure 6, the ratio of full-time park employees (FTE) per 10,000
residents in each agency is below the national median for similar populations. Again, this
comparison does not factor recreation programming staff into the comparison.




                                                        6


                                                                                                           Page 15 of 40
                                                                                                    5/20/2026


                                    FTE per 10,000 residents
            Pop. Range
             Median       3.6       8.2          9.6          9.6       13.7        13.7   13.7
              100%
               90%
               80%
               70%                                                                  8.4     7.7
                                                 6.3
               60%        2.9        6.6                      8.3       11.0
               50%
               40%
               30%
               20%                                                                  5.3     6.0
                                                 3.3
               10%        0.7        1.6                      1.3       2.7
                0%
                          Clark   Vancouver     Camas        Battle Washougal Ridgefield   Yacolt
                         County                              Ground

                                  Agency Data          Gap from Pop. Range Median

   Figure 6: The percentage gap between agency data and the national median data
(based on population size) for full-time employees (FTE) per 10,000 residents for parks
                only (does not include recreational programming staff)

The current data illustrates the realities of rapidly growing communities that will need park
and recreation spaces and services. Based on State growth projections, the county will see
a projected population growth of 34% over the next 20 years. That equates to about
154,854 more residents by 2045, which is similar to adding another city the size of
Vancouver (current population of 202,600) to the County. This massive growth will require
investment in park systems or drastic reductions in the level of service and numbers of
parks in Clark County.

Given the demand for parks and open space access, each provider agrees that reduction is
not a viable path forward. And while each agency has gaps in comparison to the national
median, the task team members acknowledge that each system’s needs and level of
service goals look different. This report will not prescribe the funding needs to meet each
agencies’ needs or goals. While a shared revenue source for parks would be beneficial to
cities that participate, it will likely not be a total solution to filling gaps at all agencies.



Models and Case Studies
The task team narrowed their focus to explore two types of viable funding models: a
Metropolitan Park District (MPD) and a Regional Levy. Either of these models would
allow for the County to share part of the tax revenue with cities. This section summarizes

                                                         7


                                                                                                           Page 16 of 40
                                                                                   5/20/2026


each type of model and discusses the potential implications if either model were
implemented for Clark County.

Metropolitan Parks District
An MPD is a special-purpose local government entity established by voter approval under
Washington’s statute RCW 35.61 to fund a defined district that can cross multiple
governmental jurisdictions. The MPD funds can be used to acquire, develop, maintain, and
operate parks, trails, recreational facilities and other related amenities or programming.
Establishment of an MPD allows for a permanent property tax levy that does not require
periodic renewal votes from the public. Once created, the MPD is governed by a board or
legislative authority, who would control the property tax levy rate on an annual basis.

Currently, Clark County contains one MPD, the GCPD, which generally has a boundary
limited to Vancouver’s unincorporated urban growth area (as defined in 2005 when the
MPD was formed). The GCPD was established with a property tax levy cap of 27 cents per
$1,000 of assessed home value, and County Council was designated as the governing
body. The rate of the levy has decreased over time because, even though housing prices
have increased rapidly, Washington State limits the annual revenue growth of local
governments to one percent annually (plus new construction). The levy rate is adjusted
each year based on total revenue projections. As of 2026, the levy rate is approximately 13
cents.

One viable option would be an expansion of the GCPD boundary into a County-wide
district. This would allow money generated by the MPD to be used throughout the county,
including regional parks. The County could also share portions of the tax revenue with
cities utilizing intergovernmental agreements. At approximately 13 cents per $1,000 of
assessed value, a County-wide MPD would generate an estimated $15 million dollars
annually.

To initiate a ballot measure for expansion of the GCPD, petitions within each jurisdiction
must be signed first. In accordance with RCW 35.61.020, a petition for a new city to join an
MPD must be signed by 20 percent of the registered voters residing within the territory
proposed to be annexed into the MPD. If the petition effort is successful, then annexation
requires a simple majority to be approved by voters.

Regional Parks Levy
A county-wide property tax dedicated to parks, if approved by voters, could be levied for a
six-year period, per RCW 36.68.525. Washington’s statute limits the levy amount to 60

                                             8


                                                                                              Page 17 of 40
                                                                                    5/20/2026


cents or less per thousand dollars of assessed value of property and requires a voter
approval rate of at least 60 percent. Levy revenues may be used to acquire, build, operate,
maintain, or regulate parks, trails, recreational facilities and other related amenities or
programming. The levy would be governed by County Council, who would be allowed to
increase the rate up to one percent annually without voter approval.

The levy provides more flexibility to cities that might consider a city-wide MPD in the future.
The levy’s six-year term limit might be more palatable to tax-sensitive voters but would not
provide a permanent solution for the problems facing parks systems. Additionally, levy
renewals would likely require some level of investment in public education every six years.
If a County-wide levy were established, it would not change the existing GCPD tax rate and
boundary. Many task team members brought up an equity concern regarding overlaying a
park-levy on top of the GCPD. The GCPD populus would be paying two property taxes
dedicated to parks, while the rest of the County population would only be paying one.
Without additional benefits within the GCPD, this approach may be seen as inequitable by
some taxpayers within the GCPD. Some task team members have concerns about the
County-wide levy option, as it would result in a layered park tax for some residents.

Conclusion
Based on the information presented herein, the task team developed the following facts
and findings:

Park Systems Value:
   1) The benefits of parks, trails, natural areas, and recreational facilities extend beyond
      the land, helping to strengthen the local economy, make our region more desirable
      for businesses, workers, families, individuals, and visitors, as well as supporting
      public health and wellness and creating spaces that reflect the needs of all
      residents.i

   2) Community members across our region place high value on parks, trails, and
      recreation. Parks, natural areas and trails are consistently ranked among the most
      important public infrastructure in our region. ii

Challenges:
   1) Every park system in our region is funded below the national median of peer
       agencies of similar population size. iii
   2) Communities throughout our region are projected to see continued rapid
       population growth. iv Current funding sources are limited and insufficient to meet

                                               9


                                                                                             Page 18 of 40
                                                                                  5/20/2026


        present needs.v Due to the continued rapid population growth coupled with
        existing gaps, agencies across the region will not be able to meet future needs
        without a new approach and additional funding.

    3) Clark County has valuable recreational trails, but lacks an interconnected regional
       trail system, which contributes to our area’s health, wellness and future economic
       development goals. vi



Findings and Next Steps
City- and County- owned parks serve all community members, regardless of their
residential location. The Regional Funding Task Team finds that it is important to consider a
regional funding source to fund all park and recreation systems in our region. Similar
regional funding models are utilized around the country. vii The Task Team acknowledges
that ultimately this will be a voter decision, but believe it is important for the cities and
county governments to work in concert with one another.

Recommended Actions
The task team reviewed models that might meet this future funding need and identified
impacts and implications for proposing each model in Clark County. The task team
recommends that County Council take the next steps to further explore these funding
models and how revenue could be shared with interested cities, by:

   1. Conducting market research to provide the data, feasibility evaluations, and
      conducting public education and other preparatory work needed for County
      Council to make a decision on a potential future ballot measure.
   2. Determining viability and process for adopting either funding mechanism by
      conducting formal legal reviews.
   3. Developing a framework for revenue sharing by directing county staff to continue
      to work with city representatives so that city park providers can also benefit from a
      potential revenue source dedicated to parks.

Process for Decision-Making

The potential next steps of this process are outlined below:

   •   County Council consideration of Recommended Actions
   •   Present public information on need and benefits of funding dedicated to parks
   •   Market research prior to potential ballot measure, with the following outcomes:

                                             10


                                                                                           Page 19 of 40
                                                                                              5/20/2026


            o   Ballot measure feasibility
            o   Levy price sensitivity
            o   Community values and motivations toward parks, trails, and recreation
            o   Strategic timing of a ballot measure
            o   Accountability benchmarking and baseline data for future evaluations of levy
                success
    •   Cities and County staff work to develop a framework for revenue sharing and draft
        the terms of interlocal agreements (ILAs), including:
            o Mechanics of revenue sharing
            o Calculation of revenue share
            o Clarification of intended use of funds
            o Articulation of autonomy within a shared purpose
                    ▪ Specific mutual investment (regional parks, regional trails)
                    ▪ Synchronization with City goals from County investment
                    ▪ County commitments to cities
    •   Draft interlocal agreements are presented to City Councils for consideration
    •   Possible ballot measure in Fall 2027



i
   Washington State Parks Economic Impact Report: Economic Benefits of Parks | Washington State Parks
Earth Economics Report: Economic Analysis of Outdoor Recreation in Washington Stat
Trust for Public Land Report: The Power of Parks to Promote Health - Trust for Public Land
UW Report: https://rco.wa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2020/01/HealthBenefitsofNature.pdf
ii
    City of Camas:findingsreport_camaswa24120624.pdf
City of Battle Ground: 2025-Battle-Ground-Survey-Findings-Report
iii
    Regional Funding Task Team, Data Summary Infographic
iv
    Washington State Office of Financial Management, Growth Projections: gma_2022_5yr.xlsx
v
    Clark County Council Meeting, 3/26/25: 032625-sustainable-future-parks-and-nature_0.pdf
vi
    Clark County Bicycle and Pedestrian Master Plan: Clark Cover OCt
Regional Transportation Council, Active Transportation Plan: RAPT2021-Report.pdf
vii
    King County Parks Levy: Parks Levy - King County, Washington
Sonoma County Parks Levy: Measure M FAQ




                                                   11


                                                                                                        Page 20 of 40
Parks and Recreation
Advisory Commission
Retreat
September 23, 2026




                     Page 21 of 40
Planning for the Future: Priorities & Sustainability
• Resource changes       • How we’ve adapted
• Growth needs           • More choices ahead

2 | PRAC Retreat
                                                   Page 22 of 40
                   Statement of
                   Purpose
                   Develop a plan to better
                   define community needs
                   and identify a more
                   financially sustainable
                   approach




3 | PRAC Retreat
                                       Page 23 of 40
Introduction and
Context

•    Operating budget trends
     from 2007 to current
•    Long term "structural deficit"
     means revenues lag behind
     expenditures
•    Vancouver is growing with a
     30% increase in population
     between 2007-2025


4 | PRAC Retreat


                                      Page 24 of 40
Page 25 of 40
Reduced Staff and
Growing Community

•    Visible impacts to service levels
     and deferred maintenance
•    Many programs full with
     waitlists
•    Event requests have increased
     significantly
•    Interest in added park amenities
     are not met


6 | PRAC Retreat


                                         Page 26 of 40
                   Approach to Financial
                   Sustainability
                   • Multiple efforts are needed to
                     support long-term stability
                      – Review standards and cost
                        assumptions
                      – Evaluate dedicated ongoing
                        funding options
                      – Maximize use of fees, grants
                        and partnerships



6 | PRAC Retreat
                                                  Page 27 of 40
Clark County
Sustainable Funding Update
•    Work in 2025-2026 identified many
     common conditions and needs
•    Report to Councils have occurred in
     recent months
•    Focus is on expansion of existing
     MPD
•    Public opinion survey after
     election with results in early '27


8 | PRAC Retreat


                                           Page 28 of 40
                   5-Minute Break




7 | PRAC Retreat
                                    Page 29 of 40
                   Comprehensive
                   Plan update

                   • What is a parks
                     comprehensive plan?
                   • Why update the plan?
                   • What’s included?
                   • Plan development team
                   • How can you help?


8 | PRAC Retreat
                                      Page 30 of 40
                   What is a parks
                   comprehensive plan?
                   • Long range policy document
                   • Assesses community needs now
                     and in the future
                   • Establishes priorities on
                     investment
                   • Aligns the roadmap with other
                     strategic plans




9 | PRAC Retreat
                                                  Page 31 of 40
               Why update
               the plan?
               • Grant funding eligibility

               • Our Vancouver and Climate
                 Action Framework alignment

               • County regional trail plan
                 update alignment




10 | PRAC Retreat
                                              Page 32 of 40
Plan development goals
• Build on Essential Spaces and              • Advance equity and access to parks,
  Our Vancouver by prioritizing needs.         recreation facilities and trails.
• Develop a strategy for evolving with the   • Create a sustainable parks system
  urbanization of our city.
13 | PRAC Retreat
                                                                                Page 33 of 40
                    Public outreach and
                    engagement
                    • Public involvement plan will:
                       – Define whom we need to hear
                         from
                       – Define how we engage them
                       – Build shared understanding
                       – Establish priorities
                       – Inform decisions




14 | PRAC Retreat
                                                 Page 34 of 40
                                Plan development team
    PRCS Planning            Consultant                Community                  PRAC                 City Council
•   Project             •   Develop public         •   Share priorities   •   Attend engagement    •   Set overall funding
    coordination            involvement plan                                  opportunities            priorities
                                                   •   Participate in
•   Lead outreach &     •   Facilitate                 surveys            •   Review public        •   Review PRAC
    engagement              engagement                                        involvement plan         recommendation
                                                   •   Review and
•   Analysis &          •   Technical analysis &       comment on         •   Weigh community      •   Adopt final plan
    recommendations         recommendations            drafts                 & staff input

•   Implement adopted   •   Draft plan             •   Shape final        •   Review plan drafts
    plan                                               priorities             and make
                                                                              recommendations




    15 | PRAC Retreat
                                                                                                                    Page 35 of 40
Community engagement influence
                                          1. Community influence

             Community needs assessment                                            Community input




                                             2. Plan framework

          Level of service                     Park classification                        Priority identification




                                              3. Guiding plans

      Park comp plan update                  Capital facilities plan                        Recreation plan




                                     4. Investment & Implementation

 County regional funding       Grant opportunities                   PIF program            Alternative funding research

                                                                                                                     Page 36 of 40
                       What is your role?




Engagement               Join us         Review plans             Advocate
Identify community     Participate in    Provide feedback on   Support community
   voices to be      workshops, pop-up     draft plans and       priorities during
     included           events, etc.          priorities           discussions




 17 | PRAC Retreat
                                                                              Page 37 of 40
            What does engagement
            look like for you?
            Ambassador and listener
              • Listen first
              • Ask questions
              • Share information
              • Encourage participation
              • Create a welcoming
                 environment
              • Be open to the information
                 you hear
              • Bring what you hear back
18 | PRAC Retreat
                                             Page 38 of 40
                    Discussion
                    • Does this approach
                      address key work needed
                      to address sustainable
                      funding
                    • What topics or issues are
                      most important to you?
                    • What are you most
                      interested in participating
                      in?


19 | PRAC Retreat
                                            Page 39 of 40
                    Draft PRCS Comp Plan Schedule
  Consultant          Initial                 Draft plan                    Final plan review
  selection           engagement,             development                   Adoption process
                      public education


Winter 2027            Spring 2027          Summer 2027     Fall – Winter 2027      Spring 2028



            Project kickoff,         Needs analysis, LOS      Public review          Code updates,
            assessment and gap       and classification                              adoption
            analysis                 updates


20 | PRAC Retreat
                                                                                                     Page 40 of 40
