                                                                   Vancouver City Council
                                                                   Anne McEnerny-Ogle, Mayor
                                                                   Bart Hansen - Ty Stober - Erik Paulsen
                                                                   Sarah J. Fox - Diana H. Perez - Kim D.
                                                                   Harless

                                 City Council Meeting Agenda
                                       October 5, 2026
In accordance with the Open Public Meetings Act (OPMA), the Vancouver City Council meeting will be open to
in-person attendance. Options for viewing and/or participating in the meeting remotely will also be
accommodated. The City Council will be attending this meeting in person.

All City Council workshops and meetings are broadcast onCVTV cable channels 23 / HD 323 and
on www.cvtv.org.

Public testimony will be accepted regarding any matter on the agenda below. Advance registration will be
required.

Unless otherwise announced by the Presiding Officer, each speaker may testify once for up to three minutes
under each public testimony opportunity below and will be asked to provide their name and city of residence for
the record.

Testimony will be accepted in the following manner:

     • Written comments submitted in advance: Email comments to the City Council until 12:00 p.m.
       October 5, 2026. Comments will be compiled and sent to the City Council and entered into the record.
     • In-person or remote testimony during the meeting: Register in-person at City Hall. In-person
       registration is open until 6:30 p.m. on October 5, 2026. Instructions will be provided on-site.
       Register to testify online. Online registration is open until 12:00 p.m. on October 5, 2026.


Visit the city's website for more information and to register under Community Testimony or call the City
Manager's Office at (360) 487-8600.

Further instructions for accessing the virtual meeting (for remote testimony) will be provided upon registration.

Upon request, printouts of agenda materials will be provided, including large print.
Workshops: 4:00- 6:00 p.m.
Vancouver City Hall - Council Chambers - 415 W 6th Street, Vancouver WA

      State Legislative Draft Legislative Agenda
      (Approximately 45 minutes)
      Katherine Kelly, Program and Policy Development Manager,
      katherine.kelly@cityofvancouver.us

      Budget Work Session
      (Approximately 45 minutes, to immediately follow the previous workshop.)
      Lisa Brandl, Deputy City Manager, Kathryn Shifley, Chief Financial Officer,
      lisa.brandl@cityofvancouver.us, katie.shifley@cityofvancouver.us

      Vancouver Municipal Code Title 19 Revision and Scofflaw Program Update
     (Approximately 30 minutes, to immediately follow the previous workshop.)
     Gabe Montez, Parking District Manager, Tyler Lund, Parking Enforcement Officer ,
     Gabriel.Montez@cityofvancouver.us, tyler.lund@cityofvancouver.us

Council Dinner / Executive Session Re: Acquisition of Real Estate (RCW 42.30.110(1)(b)) (6:00
- 6:30 PM)

Regular Council Meeting

6:30 PM
Vancouver City Hall - Council Chambers - 415 W 6th Street, Vancouver WA

Pledge of Allegiance

Call to Order and Roll Call

Approval of Minutes

Proclamations

     National Disability Employment Awareness Month

     Dia de Muertos

Community Communication
This is the place on the agenda where the public is invited to speak to Council regarding any matter
on the Agenda not already scheduled for Public Hearing. (Separate instructions are provided for
offering testimony on Public Hearing when applicable.) This includes the option to testify about
Workshops. Members of the public addressing Council are requested to give their name and city of
residence for the audio record. Speakers are to limit their testimony to a total of three minutes for all
items combined.

Consent Agenda
The following items will be passed by a single motion to approve all listed actions and resolutions.
There will be no discussion on these items unless requested by Council. If discussion is requested,
the item will be moved from the Consent Agenda and considered separately – after the motion has
been made and passed to approve the remaining items.

1.   Construction Acceptance - NE 122nd Ave Sewer and Water Improvements Acceptance
     and Release

     Staff Report: 191-26

     Request: On Monday, October 5, 2026 accept the NE 122nd Ave Sewer and Water
              Improvement Project, and authorize release of the contractor’s retainage of
              $49,616.11, subject to receipt of all documentation required by law.
                Sheryl Hale, Engineering Manager, sheryl.hale@cityofvancouver.us

2.   Contract - Bid Award for Main Street Safety and Mobility Project - ITB 26-30 - C-102371
     Staff Report: 192-26

     Request: On Monday, October 5, 2026, award a construction contract for Main Street Safety
              and Mobility Project to the lowest responsive bidder, MJ Hughes Construction, of
              Vancouver, WA, at the bid price of $2,403,459.80, which includes Washington State
              Sales tax, and authorize the City Manager, or designee, to finalize and execute the
              contract.
               Spencer Cook, Engineering Manager, Spencer.Cook@cityofvancouver.us

3.   Contract - Bid Award for Section 30 South Pump Station Project - ITB 26-31 - C-102368

     Staff Report: 193-26

     Request: On Monday, October 5, 2026, award a construction contract for Section 30 South
              Pump Station Project to the lowest responsive bidder, Midway Underground, LLC, of
              Toledo, WA, at the bid price of $1,255,780.35 which includes Washington State Sales
              tax, and authorize the City Manager, or designee, to finalize and execute the contract.
               Sheryl Hale, Engineering Manager, sheryl.hale@cityofvancouver.us

4.   Right-of-Way Vacation - SE 1st Street (CTC property)

     A RESOLUTION fixing October 26, 2026, as the date for a public hearing on a proposal to
     vacate public right-of-way associated with SE 1st Street, located on the northeast corner of NE
     184th Avenue and SE 1st Street, located within the Southeast Quarter of Section 30, Township
     2 North, Range 3 East, Willamette Meridian, City of Vancouver, Clark County, Washington.

     AN ORDINANCE vacating the right-of-way associated with SE 1st Street, located on the
     northeast corner of NE 184th Avenue and SE 1st Street, located within the Southeast Quarter of
     Section 30, Township 2 North, Range 3 East, Willamette Meridian, City of Vancouver, Clark
     County, Washington, described more particularly in Exhibit A; and providing for an effective
     date.

     Staff Report: 194-26

     Request: On Monday, October 5, 2026, finalize and approve the resolution of intent and
              advance an ordinance on first reading to vacate a portion of public right-of-way
              associated with SE 1st Street located within the Southeast Quarter of Section 30,
              Township 2 North, Range 3 East, Willamette Meridian, setting the date of public
              hearing for October 26, 2026.
               Ryan Lopossa, Streets and Transportation Manager, Eric Hahn, Senior Civil
               Engineer, ryan.lopossa@cityofvancouver.us, eric.hahn@cityofvancouver.us

5.   Ordinance Amending Vancouver Municipal Code Title 20 pursuant to House Bill 1491

     AN ORDINANCE relating to Comprehensive Plan and Zoning for the City of Vancouver and the
     Vancouver Municipal Code (VMC) Title 20 in matter related to statutory requirements to facilitate
     housing near transit; amending VMC 20.450.030 and 20.530.040; providing for severability; and
     establishing an effective date.
     Staff Report: 195-26

     Request: On Monday, October 5, 2026, advance the ordinance, setting the date for the second
              reading and public hearing on October 12, 2026.
               Bryan Snodgrass, Principal Planner, bryan.snodgrass@cityofvancouver.us

6.   Approval of the Claim Vouchers
     Request: Approve claim vouchers for October 5, 2026.

Public Hearings

7.   Resolution considering Initiative Measure No. IL26-001 concerning parental rights
     relating to their children in public school. This measure would repeal amendments to a
     statute listing certain rights of parents and guardians of public-school children and re-
     enact the law as it was originally enacted by Initiative to the Legislature 2081 and
     Initiative Measure No. IL26-638 concerning participation in athletics at K-12 schools. This
     measure would prohibit students it defines as “biologically male” from competing in
     certain school athletic activities intended for female students only. It would require
     verification of biological sex by students’ healthcare providers.

     A RESOLUTION expressing the City Council’s opposition to the passage of Initiative No. IL26-
     001, concerning parental rights relating to their children in public schools, and Initiative No. IL26-
     638, concerning participation in athletics at K-12 schools, on the November 3, 2026, General
     Election Ballot.

     Staff Report: 196-26

     Request: On Monday, October 5, 2026, finalize and approve the resolution considering Initiative
              Measure No. IL26-001 concerning parental rights relating to their children in public
              school. This measure would repeal amendments to a statute listing certain rights of
              parents and guardians of public-school children and re-enact the law as it was
              originally enacted by Initiative to the Legislature 2081. And Initiative Measure No.
              IL26-638 concerning participation in athletics at K-12 schools. This measure would
              prohibit students it defines as “biologically male” from competing in certain school
              athletic activities intended for female students only. It would require verification of
              biological sex by students’ healthcare providers.
               Aaron Lande, Assistant City Manager, Katherine Kelly, Program and Policy
               Development Manager, aaron.lande@cityofvancouver.us,
               katherine.kelly@cityofvancouver.us

Communications

     A.   From the Council

     B.   From the Mayor

     C.   From the City Manager

Community Forum
This is the place on the agenda where the public is invited to speak to Council regarding any matter.
Members of the public addressing Council are requested to give their name and city of residence for
the record. Speakers are to limit their testimony to a total of three minutes. Up to 90 minutes will be
allotted for the Community Forum.

Adjournment


City Hall is served by C-TRAN. Route information and schedules are available online at www.c-
tran.com. You also may reach C-TRAN at (360) 695-0123 for more information on times, fares, and
routes.

Anyone needing language interpretation services or accommodations with a disability at a Vancouver
City Council meeting may contact the City Manager's staff at (360) 487-8600 (RELAY: 711). Assistive
listening devices and live Closed Captioning are available for the deaf, hard of hearing and general
public use. Please notify a staff person if you wish to use one of the devices. Every attempt at
reasonable accommodation will be made. To request this agenda in another format, please also
contact the phone numbers listed above.
