                                                          MEMORANDUM
DATE:           October 6, 2026
TO:             Chair Edwards and Transportation and Mobility Commission members
FROM:           Adam Argo, Principal Transportation Planner; Emily Benoit, Senior
                Transportation Planner; Brett Setterfield, Associate Transportation Planner,
                Community Development; Matt Hinshaw, Senior Civil Engineer, Public
                Works Transportation Division
RE:             2025-2026 Corridor Projects, Safety and Mobility Planning Phase,
                Design Concepts Workshop
CC:             Kate Drennan, Transportation Planning Manager, Community
                Development; Ryan Lopossa, Transportation Manager, Public Works

Meeting Purpose
To review and discuss the 2025-2026 Corridor Projects with the Transportation and
Mobility Commission (TMC) regarding:
      •   Design concepts, recommendations and reports for the corridors.
      •   How near- and long-term concepts reflect the Transportation System Plan (TSP).
      •   Activities and tactics for Phase 2 of community engagement.

Project Overview
The Corridor Projects comprise the following three corridor segments (see Figure 1):

      •   Northeast 72nd Avenue from Northeast 40th Street to Northeast 78th Street
      •   Northeast 86th/87th Avenue from East Mill Plain Boulevard to Northeast Fourth
          Plain Boulevard
      •   97th/98th Avenue from Southeast 10th Street to Northeast 39th Street




 P.O. Box 1995 | Vancouver, WA 98668-1995 | 360-487-8000 | TTY: 711 | cityofvancouver.us
           2025-2026 Corridor Projects | Design Concepts Workshop | October 2026




Figure 1: Project Area Map


Design Concepts
The three corridor projects are at approximately 30% design.
The project team has developed design recommendations for near-term improvements
to be implemented as part of the upcoming pavement preservation project, and long-
term improvements to become future projects as funding allows. Some near-term
improvements will include build out of the bicycle and small mobility facilities, but
where there are existing roadway constraints, these improvements will be considered
long-term. All of the design improvements, including repurposing some turn lanes and
on street parking to build bicycle and small mobility lanes, support implementation of
the Transportation System Plan.
The following summarize design recommendations for each of the three corridors, as
outlined in greater detail in the Design Concepts Reports.

Northeast 72nd Avenue


                                          Page | 2
       2025-2026 Corridor Projects | Design Concepts Workshop | October 2026


   •   Lane Reconfiguration/Bike and Small Mobility (BSM) Lane Implementation:
       Repurpose existing roadway to have two 10-foot drive lanes and add buffered
       BSM lanes with tubular markers, except for near Northeast 69th Street to
       Northeast 75th Street in Segment 4.
   •   Signing and Striping: Install leading pedestrian intervals, crossbike markings,
       two-stage turn bicycle boxes, and no-turn-on-red signs.
   •   Parking Reallocation: All existing parking will be reallocated to create BSM lanes
       to implement the TSP Modal Network.
   •   Traffic Calming: Install speed cushions and 25 mph speed limit signs.
   •   Signals: Upgrade traffic signal hardware on signals along the corridor.
   •   Crossings: Install or improve multiple crossings along the corridor in the near-
       term during upcoming projects or long-term when funding is identified.
   •   Sidewalks: Fill sidewalk gaps in the corridor in the near-term during upcoming
       projects or long-term when funding is identified.

97th/98th Avenues
   •   Lane Reconfiguration/BSM Lane Implementation: Narrow the vehicle travel
       lanes and repurpose turn lanes to provide BSM lanes and a buffer.
   •   Crossings: Improve the crosswalk markings at Northeast 9th Street and Northeast
       11th Street to meet City standards, and reconstruct the pedestrian refuge islands
       at Northeast 14th Street. Install or improve multiple crossings along the corridor
       in the near-term during upcoming projects or long-term when funding is
       identified.
   •   Sidewalks: Fill sidewalk gaps in the corridor in the near-term during upcoming
       projects or long-term when funding is identified.
   •   Signing and Striping: Install bicycle boxes, crossbike markings, and no-turn-on-
       red signs. Add shared lane markings along Segment 2 (Mill Plain Boulevard to
       Northeast 8th Street) and Segments 6 and 7 north of Northeast Burton Road.
   •   Parking Reallocation: All existing parking between Mill Plain Boulevard and
       Northeast Burton Road will be reallocated to create BSM lanes to implement the
       TSP Modal Network.
   •   Traffic Calming: Install speed cushions and 20-25 mph speed limit signs.

Northeast 86th/87th Avenues
   •   Lane Reconfiguration/BSM Lane Implementation: Narrow the vehicle travel
       lanes to increase the BSM lane widths and add a buffer with tubular markers
       from Northeast 9th Street to Fourth Plain Boulevard.
   •   Crossings: Improve the crossings at Northeast 5th, 6th, 9th, 12th, 20th, and 33rd
       Streets. Add crossings at Northeast 8th and 28th Ways, Northeast 22nd, 26th and 36th
       Circles, and Northeast 30th and 19th Streets. Crossings are implemented along the
       corridor in the near-term during upcoming projects or long-term when funding is
       identified.
   •   Signing and Striping: Install wayfinding signs, crossbike markings, two-stage turn
       bicycle boxes, and no-turn-on-red signs.


                                         Page | 3
         2025-2026 Corridor Projects | Design Concepts Workshop | October 2026


    •   Parking Reallocation: Some of the existing parking will be reallocated to create
        BSM lanes to implement the TSP Modal Network.
    •   Traffic Calming: Install speed cushions along the corridor.

Community Engagement
The second phase of engagement is currently underway to inform the community about
the corridor design concepts. Engagement methods have included:
    •   An interactive map showing proposed design concepts
    •   Small group and one-on-one meetings with community members and
        stakeholders
    •   Tabling sessions at the Walnut Grove Elementary School Back-To-School event
        and Safe Routes to School Summer Fair
    •   Transportation and Mobility Commission meetings
The communications tactics for the second phase of engagement, similar to the first
phase, included:
   •    Project webpage serving as a 24/7 public information hub
   •    4 email newsletters, including to those signed up for project updates.
   •    3 social media posts each on Facebook and Instagram
   •    4,800+ mailers sent to property owners and occupants along the project corridors
   •    20 yard signs placed along the corridors in addition to the existing yard signs
        about the project in phase one. The yard signs include QR codes that direct
        people to the project website.
        As the second phase wraps up in early October, the activities and communication
        tactics will be analyzed and summarized in a phase 2 summary report, which will
        then be shared with the public and to the TMC prior to the public hearing on
        these projects.

Next Steps
Based on the existing conditions and technical analysis, feedback from the TMC and
community input gathered during this first and second phases of engagement, the
project team can make final adjustments to the design concepts recommendations and
reports for each corridor. There will be a TMC public hearing in November where
Commissioners can provide their recommendation on the design concepts for the
project corridors.

Staff contact info
Corridor Planning Projects email contact: vancouvermoves@cityofvancouver.us
Corridor leads:
    •   Northeast 72nd Avenue: Emily Benoit, Senior Transportation Planner, Community
        Development



                                         Page | 4
       2025-2026 Corridor Projects | Design Concepts Workshop | October 2026


   •   Northeast 86/87th Avenue: Adam Argo, Principal Transportation Planner,
       Community Development
   •   97/98th Avenue: Brett Setterfield, Associate Transportation Planner, Maggie
       Derk, Senior Transportation Planner, Community Development
   •   Matt Hinshaw, Senior Civil Engineer, Public Works Transportation Division

Attachment(s):
   •   October 6, 2026 TMC Workshop PowerPoint slides
   •   Corridor Projects Design Concepts Reports Highlights
   •   Northeast 72nd Avenue Design Concepts Report
          o PRJ101088 Design Concepts Report (DCR) (on Civic Plus)
          o PRJ101088 – Appendix A (Link)
          o PRJ101088 – Appendix D (on Civic Plus)
   •   Northeast 86/87th Avenue Design Concepts Report
          o PRJ101087 DCR (on Civic Plus)
          o PRJ101087 – Appendix A (Link)
          o PRJ101087 – Appendix D (on Civic Plus)
   •   97/98th Avenue Design Concepts Report
          o PRJ101089 DCR (on Civic Plus)
          o PRJ101089 – Appendix A (Link)
          o PRJ101089 – Appendix D (on Civic Plus)
   •   Appendix B (Link, common to all three)
   •   Appendix C (on Civic Plus, common to all three)




                                        Page | 5
