(1) All requests for review to the growth management hearings board shall be initiated by filing a petition that includes a detailed statement of issues presented for resolution by the board. The board shall render written decisions articulating the basis for its holdings. The board shall not issue advisory opinions on issues not presented to the board in the statement of issues, as modified by any prehearing order. (2) All petitions relating to whether or not an adopted comprehensive plan, development regulation, or permanent amendment thereto, is in compliance with the goals and requirements of this chapter or chapter 90.58 or 43.21C RCW must be filed within sixty days after publication as provided in (a) through (d) of this subsection. (a) Except as provided in (c) and (d) of this subsection, the date of publication for a city shall be the date the city publishes the ordinance, or summary of the ordinance, adopting the comprehensive plan or development regulations, or amendment thereto, as is required to be published. (b) Promptly after adoption, a county shall publish a notice that it has adopted the comprehensive plan or development regulations, or amendment thereto. Except as provided in (c) and (d) of this subsection, for purposes of this section the date of publication for a county shall be the date the county publishes the notice that it has adopted the comprehensive plan or development regulations, or amendment thereto. (c) For local governments planning under RCW 36.70A.040 , promptly after approval or disapproval of a local government's shoreline master program or amendment thereto by the department of ecology as provided in RCW 90.58.090 , the department of ecology shall publish a notice that the shoreline master program or amendment thereto has been approved or disapproved. For purposes of this section, the date of publication for the adoption or amendment of a shoreline master program is the date the department of ecology publishes notice that the shoreline master program or amendment thereto has been approved or disapproved. (d) For purposes of this section, the date of publication for a housing element and any housing development regulations submitted to the department for review under RCW 36.70A.835 is the date the department publishes its final decision on compliance in the Washington State Register or on the department's website, whichever is later. (3)(a) All petitions relating to whether the department's final decision under RCW 36.70A.835 is clearly erroneous must be filed within 60 days after the department publishes its final decision in the Washington State Register or on the department's website, whichever is later. (b) A decision of the board concerning an appeal of the department's final decision under RCW 36.70A.835 must be based solely on whether the relevant housing element or housing development regulations comply with the laws and regulations identified in RCW 36.70A.835 (7). (4) Unless the board dismisses the pe
