NINE STEP PLANNER
CLARK COUNTY WORK SESSIONS

This form must be reviewed & approved by the Council before a work session is scheduled.


REQUESTED BY: Clark County Public Health, Healthy Communities Division is requesting to
present work session material to the County Council.

   1. TOPIC: Youth Gun Violence Prevention

   2. NAMES OF STAFF PRESENTING/ATTENDING:
      Christine Simonsmeier – Christine.simonsmeier@clark.wa.gov
      Melissa Martin – melissa.martin@clark.wa.gov
      Daniel Lopez – Daniel.Lopez@clark.wa.gov

       Tentative:
       LaQuinta Daniels – LaQuinta.Daniels@clark.wa.gov
       Deputy Chelsea Quiggle – Chelsea.Quiggle@clark.wa.gov
       Lester Griffin, The Foundation – lester@thefoundationwa.org

   3. TIME FRAME
      Length of time needed for staff presentation: 20-25min depending on Q+A
      Desired date: We have flexibility – October/November
      Scheduled date:

   4. TIMING CONSIDERATIONS:
      Councilor Yung expressed concerns about the increased reports of youth gun
      violence in the local media and requested information describing the problem (do we
      have a problem, how do we know), as well as discussing CCC’s role, and determining
      collective strategies to solve the problem.

   5. DESIRED RESULTS:
      Council members engage in dialogue with county departments and local community
      partners to gain understanding of the roles (including Council’s role), opportunities,
      and evidence-based strategies that we can use engage in collective gun violence
      prevention efforts.

   6. IMPACTS (COMMUNITY/FINANCIAL/STAFF/OTHER):
       Youth gun violence, including self-inflicted injuries and fatalities, as well as
       accidental and intentional firearm injuries and fatalities occurring at the hands of
       another person, are a threat to our community - impacting the health, well-being, and
       prosperity of Clark County residents.

   7. POLICY IMPLICATIONS:
      TBD



                                                                                    rev. 4/2026
   8. ISSUES TO BE CONSIDERED:
      Future discussion options for Council may include additional prioritization criteria
      for infrastructure investments, department/program investments, or municipal
      partnership

   9. RECOMMENDED ACTION:
      Request Council deliberate and determine next steps after the review of community
      data and hearing from presenting departments/community partners. Examples of
      potential actions could include a request from Council to implement an ad-hoc,
      multi-disciplinary committee to determine collective prevention priorities and
      develop a shared action plan or request a series of Council-specific list of
      prioritization criteria, strategies and primary prevention opportunities for review
      and consideration.


Name of requestor:


  Andrea Pruett                                        DATE: September 4, 2026


APPROVED FOR SCHEDULING:




                                                                                   rev. 4/2026
