NINE STEP PLANNER
CLARK COUNTY WORK SESSIONS


REQUESTED BY:
Public Works/Lands Management Division

   1. TOPIC: Sustainable Forestry Program

   2. NAMES OF STAFF PRESENTING/ATTENDING:
      Jennifer Coker, Kevin Tyler, Hunter Decker, Denielle Cowley

   3. TIME FRAME
      Length of time needed for staff presentation: 1 hour
      Desired date: October 2026
      Scheduled date:

   4. TIMING CONSIDERATIONS:
      Council requested an update on the sustainable forestry program. Clark County’s
      forest stewardship plan was adopted by Council in 2017 and has received only
      minor updates since then. During this time, Public Works has implemented multiple
      forest management activities under the plan.

   5. DESIRED RESULTS:
      Public Works will provide a general overview of the sustainable forestry program
      and forest stewardship plan including highlighting recent forest management
      activities and the connection to forest conservation components of the Legacy
      Lands program. Public Works requests Council input to inform the goals and
      objectives of forest conservation and management.

   6. IMPACTS (COMMUNITY/FINANCIAL/STAFF/OTHER):
      Clark County’s approach to sustainable forest management promotes a balance
      between long-term sustained yield timber harvest and environmental stewardship,
      including forest health, wildlife habitat, and ecosystem function. Public Works
      demonstrates land management in the same manner that is advocated to private
      forest landowners. On numerous occasions, these efforts have generated revenue
      and forest products that can be reinvested in county properties.

   7. POLICY IMPLICATIONS:
      Council previously adopted the Clark County Forest Stewardship Plan and has been
      working to update the county’s comprehensive plan, including goals pertaining to
      forest conservation. This work session provides an opportunity for Public Works to
      gather important information from Council to align these related efforts.

   8. ISSUES TO BE CONSIDERED:
      Public Works will present the current goals and objectives of the forest stewardship
      plan and seek input from council regarding potential updates to goals focused on
      forest health, wildlife habitat, wildfire prevention, timber production and revenue
                                                                                rev. 4/2026
      generation, and how sustainable forest management fits within the broader context
      of the Legacy Lands program.

   9. RECOMMENDED ACTION:
      Public Works seeks policy direction from council regarding prioritizing and possibly
      updating the goals and objectives of the forest stewardship plan as Public Works
      presents accomplishments of the program and lessons learned since its inception.


Name of requestor: Kevin Tyler


                                                      DATE: 8/25/2026


APPROVED FOR SCHEDULING:




                                                                                 rev. 4/2026
