Grant Review and
Approval Process
Diana Betancourt
Inspire Vancouver Program Supervisor

Stacey Donovan
Cultural Services Manager, PRCS
Oct. 8, 2026
Grant Review Committee (GRC) Role
During the Review Process

• Reviews all eligible applications in depth and scores them using the provided
  scorecard.
• Discusses public benefit, budgets, access and equity, and alignment with program
  goals and guidelines.
• Creates a ranked list of proposals in each grant category.
• Chooses a representative to present the recommendations to the CAHC.




2 | Grant Review and Approval Process
Flexible Allocation
•   The GRC recommends how to
    distribute the flexible allocation.
•   Based on budget need, geographic
    equity and access, and high-scoring
    proposals ranked below a
    category’s funding limit.
•   The GRC may recommend against
    fully funding a request the GRC
    already decided needed a smaller
    award.




3 | Grant Review and Approval Process
                                        GRC Role at the
                                        CAHC Meeting
                                        • Representative gives an overview of how the
                                          review went.
                                        • Presents a ranked list of proposals in each
                                          grant category, in order of score.
                                        • Funding limit is clearly marked; proposals
                                          below it cannot be funded with year one
                                          allocations.
                                        • Presents the recommendation for the flexible
                                          allocation.



4 | Grant Review and Approval Process
Commission Role
During the Grant Award CAHC Meeting

• Review the GRC’s recommendations.
• Focus discussion at program level (geographic equity, balance across arts, culture,
  heritage, and science, etc.); will not discuss individual grants.
• Vote to accept the GRC’s recommendations for the three grant categories or propose
  an amendment.
• Vote to accept or deny the flexible funding recommendation or propose an
  amendment.



5 | Grant Review and Approval Process
                                        Discussion




6 | Grant Review and Approval Process
