                                                                                         COUNCIL TIME
                                                                                        MEETING MINUTES


               Council Meetings will be held in a hybrid format, and the public is encouraged to participate.
                In person attendance at the Public Service Center, 6th Floor, Conference Room 680,
                       1300 Franklin Street, Vancouver, WA 98660 or virtually using WebEx


Wednesday, August 26, 2026 • 1:00 PM
Councilor Roll Call
   •   Yung – Present
   •   Belkot – Present
   •   Fuentes – Present
   •   Little – Present
   •   Marshall – Present
Amendments to the Agenda
   •   Kathleen Otto, County Manager, requested to add to old business as item 4.3 Comp Plan Public Hearing Dates
          o Council supported this amendment to the agenda.
Public Comment
   1. Carmen DeLeon
   2. Kimberlee Goheen-Elbon
Old Business
Approval of minutes for August 19, 2026
   ACTION: Moved by Councilor Belkot to APPROVE Minutes for August 19, 2026. Councilor Fuentes seconded
           the motion. All aye/motion passed.

   •   Tri-Mountain Golf Course Request for Proposal (RFP) Presentation
           o Michelle Schuster, Internal Services Director, and Kevin McDowell, DPA, presented on the Tri-
              Mountain Golf Course Lease RFP including:
                   The County’s goals with the RFP
                   Statement of interest
                   The term of the lease
                   The tentative timeline
                   How scoring will be handled
           o Questions and discussion were had by Council.
   •   Comp Plan Hearing Dates
           o Kathleen Otto, County Manager, discussed the possible timeline for the Public Hearing, deliberation,
              and adoption of the Comprehensive Plan.
           o Council supported starting the Public Hearing on Thursday, October 1st at 4pm, continuing to Friday,
              October 2nd at 10am, with a continuation to Monday, October 5th at 10am if necessary.
New Business
   •   Proclamation Request: National Day of Remembrance for Homicide Victims
          o Council supported moving forward with this proclamation request.
          o Councilor Yung volunteered to read the proclamation.




1|Page
                                                                                           COUNCIL TIME
                                                                                          MEETING MINUTES


                 Council Meetings will be held in a hybrid format, and the public is encouraged to participate.
   •   Mental Health Sales Tax (MHST) Advisory Board
          o This agenda item was added as a follow up to Councilor Little’s request, during the August 19, 2026
              Council Time, to add a Youth Commissioner to the MHST Advisory Board.
          o Kathleen Otto, County Manager, discussed the resolution that created the MHST Advisory Board,
              including the purpose and members. Council may change the membership with an amended
              Resolution.
          o Councilor Little suggested adding an at-large position and a member with lived experience also.
          o Questions and discussion were had by Council.
          o Council supported tabling this item until after the Strategic Planning meeting on September 14, 2026.
Councilor Reports
   •   Councilor Yung stated the Opioid Abatement Council met and discussed adding an individual specifically for
       data capture and processing. Yung said he will bring this back to Council’s attention after the Strategic Planning
       meeting on September 14. Yung also attended the Clark County Accessible Community Advisory Committee
       (CCACAC) meeting yesterday where the mood was somber with some frustrations that not much is changing,
       largely caused by the incident in the City of Vancouver, where an individual in a mobility chair was struck and
       killed in a crosswalk. Yung urged the public to pay attention and be safe and thanked the ACAC for their work.
   •   Chair Marshall discussed the Hidden Meadows Fire and thanked all the agencies that helped on this fire,
       including the Washington Department of Natural Resources, the Clark Regional Emergency Services Agency,
       several fire departments, and the many other first responders that assisted to handle it quickly.
Work Session Requests
   •   Councilor Request: Gorge Commission Update (40 Year Anniversary)
          o Council supported moving forward with this work session request.
Policy Updates
NONE
Executive Sessions
NONE

ADJOURNED




2|Page
                                                                                              COUNCIL TIME
                                                                                             MEETING MINUTES


          Council Meetings will be held in a hybrid format, and the public is encouraged to participate.
CLARK COUNTY COUNCIL



Sue Marshall, Chair



Glen Yung, Councilor



Michelle Belkot, Councilor



Wil Fuentes, Councilor



Matt Little, Councilor

ATTEST:

Rebecca Messinger, Clerk to the Council

jg
The audio recording for Board Time meetings can be accessed on the county website (clark.wa.gov/councilors/clark-county-council-
meetings) on The Grid.




3|Page
