Section 10.05.040 Aviation Advisory Committee


A. Purpose. The purpose of the aviation advisory committee (AAC) is to provide advice and
   recommendations to the airport manager, public works director, city manager, and city
   council, as well as other city departments, regarding the management and operations of the
   airport and other aviation-related issues affecting the city of Vancouver. The AAC’s duties
   shall be advisory only. The AAC and its members shall have no powers or authority to
   contract, incur any liability or expense on behalf of the City of Vancouver, to supervise or
   direct airport management or operations, or to make or enforce any laws or regulations. The
   committee AAC shall provide advice and recommendations on topics identified and
   requested by the airport manager or city council. Examples may include the following:

  1. Issues pertaining to mMaximizing the historic, economic, public safety, educational, and
      cultural value of the airport.

  2. Airspace compatibility of any land use economic development projects with potential to
      affect the airport (e.g., zoning, building standards, etc.).

  3. Adjustments to airport use fees, lease rates, and rental rates General financial oversight of
      the airfield, including all proposed fees, commercial leases, rental rates, and rental
      agreement formats.

  4. Proposals for capital projects involving construction, removal, or renovation of airport
      facilities to construct or remove any building, capital improvements, or to enlarge airport
      facilities.

  5. The adoption or amendment of airport rules and regulations, commercial minimum
      standards, and the development or update of the airport-related plans including the master
      plan and airport layout plan.

  6. Formal agreements with the National Park Service, or any other entity, with either
      operational or financial implications for the airport.

  7.6. Operations, changes and advancements in aviation technology and airspace use.
  8.7. Aviation matters referred to the committee by city council, city manager, or their
      designee.

  9.8. Other aviation matters that originate from a request by the AAC, made by majority vote,
       within the committee which is subject to the airport manager’s approval.

  10. Review all airport grants before application and before submission to the city council for
      acceptance of the grant. The exception will be if grant acceptance and council action are
      required sooner than the AAC can meet.



B. Members – Appointment. The AAC aviation advisory committee shall consist of seven nine
   members selected by city council subcommittee and appointed by the city council.
   Committee AAC members will serve without compensation. Members must will have a
   demonstrable interest in the airport and/or aviation and aeronautical activities, and preferably
   have skills in one or more relevant areas such as airport management, legal, marketing,
   finance, FAA knowledge, real estate, business, or and engineering. Members shall
   demonstrate the ability to work effectively with others in a volunteer committee role., and
   will effectively and respectfully work to advance the best interests of the airport and the City
   of Vancouver.


   If a suitable candidate is available, one member shall be a representative from the Port of
   Portland, and one member will shall be from a surrounding neighborhood surrounding the
   airport. In support of ensuring assuring a balanced range of community perspective on the
   AAC by the city council in their process of appointing members of the committee, no more
   than three two members of the committee may be a tenant of the airport, subject to council
   exception. No members will be Current City of Vancouver employees are prohibited from
   being an AAC member of the city of Vancouver.


C. Terms. AAC Aviation advisory committee members shall be appointed for three-year terms.,
   provided of the nine initial members, three shall be appointed to a three-year term, three to a
   two-year term and three to a one-year term. Subsequent appointments shall be to fill any
   unexpired term or to a three-year term. Service of mMembers may not exceed two three
   consecutive full terms.
D. Officers. Each year, the AAC committee shall elect by majority vote a chair and vice chair
   and such other officers as the committee finds necessary. The term of office for the chair and
   vice chair shall be one year. An AAC member may not serve as an officer for more than two
   full terms per three-year AAC appointment. Officers shall serve for one year and may not
   serve for more than two consecutive years.


E. Removal. Any member may be removed, prior to the expiration of their term of appointment,
   by a majority vote of the city council.


F. Meeting – Quorum. The AAC committee shall hold meetings at least quarterly, and may hold
   additional meetings at the discretion of the airport manager such other meetings as it finds
   necessary. A majority of the current members of the AAC aviation advisory committee shall
   constitute a quorum. Meeting agendas will be established by the airport manager based on
   the operational needs of the airport.


G. Bylaws. The AAC may propose aviation advisory committee shall adopt bylaws by a
   majority vote that outline how it will conduct the transaction of its business. The Proposed
   bylaws must will be consistent with city values and are subject to review and approval by the
   city manager or designee. The aviation advisory committee may thereafter amend the bylaws
   may be amended by the same process. or repeal and replace the bylaws subject to review by
   the city manager or designee and referral, if appropriate, to the city council for ratification.
   The bBylaws may only contain provisions for the regulation and management of the affairs
   of the AAC aviation advisory committee as consistent with law and this chapter.

H. Assistance. The airport manager or the manager’s designee shall serve as staff liaison and
   secretary to the committee (“secretary”). The city’s staff and consultants, under direction of
   the secretary, shall furnish professional and technical information and advice to the
   committee.
