                                                                        City Center
                                                                  Redevelopment Authority
                                                                           Board


City Center Redevelopment Authority Board
                                                                            Members
Meeting Agenda
October 15, 2026                                                             Marc Fazio
12:30 PM                                                                   Board President
Location
City Hall, Council Chambers, Fl 2
415 W 6th Street                                                              Michi Slick
                                                                             Alisa Pyszka
Vancouver, WA 98660
                                                                         Richard Krippaehne
Virtual Viewing:                                                            Ken Anderton
City Center Redevelopment Authority > Clark/Vancouver                     David Copenhaver
Television (cvtv.org)                                                       Heather Friend


1. Call to Order and Roll Call

2. Approval of Minutes

   a. 7/16/26 Minutes
                                                                  Economic, Housing and Prosperity
3. Executive Director Report                                             415 W. 6th Street
                                                                       Vancouver, WA 98660
   Patrick Quinton, Executive Director, Economic Prosperity &
                                                                              TTY: 711
   Housing                                                             www.cityofvancouver.us
   a. Subcommittee Meeting Report

   b. Development Pipeline Report

   c. Project Updates

4. Active Ground Floor Study Adoption

   a. Presentation — Chim Chune Ko, Real Estate Project
      Manager

5. Waterfront Gateway Update
   Chim Chune Ko, Real Estate Project Manager; Patrick Gillian,
   Lincoln Properties

   a. Presentation — Chim Chune Ko, Real Estate Project
      Manager; Alex Aigner, Lincoln Properties

6. Downtown Parking Updates
    a. Presentation — Gabriel Montez, Parking District Manager

7. Development Fee Update

    a. Presentation — Patrick Quinton, Executive Director

8. Community Forum
   To provide public testimony, please see instructions below.

9. Executive Session, if needed

10. Adjournment

Community Forum Instructions

The public is invited to speak regarding any issue on the agenda. Members of the public testifying are asked to limit
testimony to three minutes. There are three ways to provide comments:

    1. Writing: Public comments can be submitted in writing (name, address, contact information and comments)
       via email to callie.taylor@cityofvancouver.us by 5pm the day before the meeting.
    2. Remotely: Remotely: Pre-register by phone at 360-487-7846 or email callie.taylor@cityofvancouver.us by
       5pm the day before the meeting.
    3. In Person: Pre-register by phone at 360-487-7846 or email callie.taylor@cityofvancouver.us by 5pm the day
       before the meeting or fill out a Public Comment form in person prior to the start of the Community
       Communications portion of the meeting.



City Hall is served by C-TRAN. Route information and schedules are available online at www.c-tran.com. You also
may reach C-TRAN at (360) 695-0123 for more information on times, fares, and routes.

Anyone needing language interpretation services or accommodations with a disability at a Vancouver City Council
meeting may contact the City Manager's staff at (360) 487-8600 (RELAY: 711). Assistive listening devices and live
Closed Captioning are available for the deaf, hard of hearing and general public use. Please notify a staff person if
you wish to use one of the devices. Every attempt at reasonable accommodation will be made. To request this
agenda in another format, please also contact the phone numbers listed above.
