                                                                         City Center Redevelopment
                                                                          Authority Meeting Minutes


Date: July 16, 2026                                                                            Members
Time: 1:00-2:30 pm
Location:                                                                                         Marc Fazio
                                                                                              Richard Krippaehne
City Hall – Council Chambers, Fl 2                                                            David Copenhaver
415 W 6th Street                                                                                   Michi Slick
Vancouver, WA 98668                                                                               Alisa Pyszka
                                                                                                 Ken Anderton
                                                                                                Heather Friend
Regular Meeting (Convened in person and via video conference)
The meeting agenda materials referenced in these minutes can be found online.
Link to meeting video: 26 7 16 CCRA Meeting Video

Item 1: Call to Order and Roll Call
The July 16, 2026, meeting of the City Center Redevelopment Authority was called
to order at 1:00 p.m. by Marc Fazio.

Board Members Present: Marc Fazio, Michi Slick, Heather Friend, Ken Anderton
(virtual), David Copenhaver, Richard Krippaehne

Board Members Absent: Alisa Pyszka

Staff Present: Patrick Quinton, Taylor Hallvik, Callie Taylor, Chim Chune Ko

Presenters: Patrick Quinton, Chim Chune Ko, Matt Fairris

Item 2: Approval of Minutes
Motion by Friend, seconded by Slick and carried unanimously to approve the
5/21/2026 meeting minutes.

Item 3: Executive Director Report
Patrick Quinton, Executive Director, provided updates on current development
and redevelopment activities, noting increased movement within the
development pipeline and more than 600 housing units completed so far this year.
Updates included the recently adopted Comprehensive Plan and outreach related
to new middle housing opportunities, implementation of the six-story wood-frame
building code, continued design work for Waterfront Gateway, and future planning
for properties behind City Hall. Quinton also discussed ongoing work at The                      415 W 6th Street
Heights, an RFP for workforce housing on City-owned property near Fourth Plain,                   P.O. Box 1995
the upcoming biennial budget process, and the Board’s updated work plan. Future               Vancouver, WA 98668
agenda items are expected to include parking activities, Waterfront Gateway, the               cityofvancouver.us
Active Ground Floor Study and Economic Development Strategy updates.


Item 4: Community Communications
None.



                       To request accommodation or other formats, please contact:
         Economic Prosperity & Housing | 360-487-7843 | Relay 711 | callie.taylor@cityofvancouver.us
Item 5: Active Ground Floor Study
Chim Chune Ko, Real Estate Project Manager, introduced the draft Active Ground Floor Study, which
builds upon the Downtown Redevelopment Study and examines how ground-floor spaces can support
downtown growth and the City’s economic development goals. Ko reviewed the study’s scope, current
market conditions and changing demand for ground-floor spaces. He emphasized opportunities to
support living-wage jobs, local small businesses and essential services while ensuring ground-floor uses
align with the City’s Comprehensive Plan and Economic Development Strategy.
Matt Fairris, Vice President with Bay Area Economics, presented the study’s target industries and
strategies for supporting active ground-floor uses. Potential target industries include retail and
restaurants, arts and entertainment, office uses, small-scale advanced and food manufacturing, and
specialty civic and community services. Fairris explained that the study includes an industry matrix
designed to help the City match businesses with appropriate spaces, conduct targeted outreach, identify
infrastructure needs and explore opportunities involving publicly owned property and public-private
partnerships. Recommendations include maintaining flexibility in ground-floor requirements,
streamlining City processes, proactively working with businesses and property owners, supporting
activation of vacant storefronts, strategically using publicly owned sites, and exploring financial
incentives and funding opportunities.
Board members expressed support for the study and discussed the importance of allowing flexibility
across different areas of downtown rather than taking an overly prescriptive approach to ground-floor
uses. Members also supported proactive outreach and consideration of incentives to attract businesses
downtown. Ko thanked the board for their input, which will be incorporated into the draft. The completed
draft report will be provided to the Board for review before future formal consideration.

Item 8: Executive Session
None.


Item 8: Adjournment
2:17 pm
                                                            _____________________________________
                                                                          Marc Fazio, Board President

Meetings of the City Center Redevelopment Authority are electronically recorded on audio. The audio
tapes are kept on file in the office of the City Clerk for a period of six years.
