                                     ORDINANCENO. 20265- -

       AN ORDINANCEamendinga portion ofthe dark County Code (CCC) related to the Rules of
       Procedure and Code of Conduct.


       WHEREAS, the dark County Charter requires the County Council (Council) to adopt Rules of
Procedures; and

       WHEREAS,the Council has consideredand directed the updating ofthe current Rules of
Procedure; and

       WHEREAS,the Council is consideringthe matter at a duly-advertisedpublic hearingand
concludesthat adoptionwill furtherthe public health, safety, andwelfare; now, therefore,

      BE IT ORDERED,RESOLVEDAND DECREEDBYTHE CLARKCOUNTYCOUNCIL,
STATE OF WASHINTON, AS FOLLOWS:

       Section 1. Ainendatory. Exhibit "A", as referenced in CCC 2. 09. 040, as adopted by Ordinance
2017-08-09andamendedby Ordinances2018-04-02,2019-05-01,2022-04-09,2023-05-11,-aed2024-03-
11 and2025-02-01 is hereby amendedper Exhibit"A" attachedto this ordinance. Exhibit"A" is not to
be recorded in the dark County Code.

       Section2. EffectiveDate.This ordinanceshallbeeffectiveonthe 10thdayfollowingadoption.

       Section 3. Instructions to the Clerk. The Clerk of the Council shall:


                 A. Record a copy of this Ordmance with the dark County Auditor.
                 B. Causenotice of adoptionofthis Ordinanceto be published forthwith, pursuantto
                    CCC 1.02. 140.
                 C. Provide a copy ofthis Ordinanceto Code Publishing.
                 D. Ensure a copy is available on the County website.

       Section4. Roll Call Vote. The followingpersons voted in favor ofthe above Ordinance:



                 The following persons voted in oppositionto the above Ordinance:



       ADOPTED on this             day of                ,   2026§
                            COUNTY COUNCIL
                           CLARKCOUNTY, WASHINGTON



Attest:



                           By
Clerk to the Council             Sue Marshall, Chair




Approved as to Fonn Only   By:
Anthony F. Golik                 Glen Yung, Councilor

Prosecuting Attorney



By                         By
                                 Michelle Belkot, Councilor




                           By:
                                 Wil Fuentes, Councilor




                           By:
                                 Matt Little, Councilor
EXHIBIT A
dark County Council



   Rules of Procedure




 Revised        ,   20265
I.     General Provisions


       A. On Jan. 1, 2015, the dark County Charter separated the legislative and executive
          powers into two branches of County government. The Charter vests the County's
          legislative process not reserved to the people or the executive branch in the dark
          County Council. See Article 2 of the Charter.

       B. Except as otherwise provided in the Charter or RCW's these Rules of Procedure
          will govern the conduct of business of the County Council.

II.    County Council

       A. dark County will be governed by the dark County Council. The council has five
          (5) members. How they are elected is determined in accordancewithWashington
          law and the dark County Charter. The Council will complywith theWashington
          OpenPublicMeetingsAct.

III.   Chair and Vice-Chair


       A. At the first regular Council meeting ofeachcalendaryear, the Council will elect
          one (1) ofits members as Chairandwill also elect one (1) ofits members as vice-
          Chair. The Chair will ask for nominations for both the Chair and vice-Chair. The
          vice-Chair will act in the absence of the Chair. In the event the Chair and vice-
          Chair are absent, the most senior Councilmember in terms of Council service
          shall assumethe duties andresponsibilities ofChair.

       B. The Chair will preside over and ensure orderly, efficient, Council meetings. In
          general, Roberts Rules ofQerdered will be followed^ In the event of a conflict
          and/or dis ute re ardin rocesses including, but not limited to, recognizing any
          Councilor asking for a Point of Order the Council will follow Roberts Rules of
          Order. The Chair, or their designee, will be the County's spokesperson to:
          articulate Council policies, visions, strategies, and plans; represent the County
          before the governor, state legislature and other state and federal agencies; meet
          and greet important visitors; and serve as the county's lead representative at
          dedications,ceremonial activities, and otherpublic events. In cases ofthe Chair's
          absence,thevice-Chairwill preside at County meetings.

       C_The Council will vote to appoint its members to service on boards and
          commissions. No singularmember otherthanthe Chairor their designee(as
          stated in III. B. above) may represent the Council, or give the perception of
          representing the Council, to any external entity unless authorized in advance by
          vote of Council.
      D. The Council ma remove an Councilor from their Councilor a           ointed board
         and/or commission with a sim Ie ma'orit vote.

       -E.      The Council ma direct an individual Councilor a ointed to a board
         and/or commission how to vote on s ecific olic items with a sim Ie ma'orit
          vote.


      DrF.       If a vacancyoccurs in the office ofthe Council chairor Council vice-
         Chair, the remaining Councilors will elect one oftheir ownto serve until the next
         annual election ofthe Council Chairand Council vice-Chairat the first regular
         Council meeting ofthe following year.

      -BrG.       If a Councilorvacancyoccurs, the remaining Councilors will vote to
          reappoint its members to ser/ice on boards and commissions vacated by the
          Councilor seat until the seat is filled.


IV.   Regular Meetings

      A. The Council's regular meeting days are set in dark County Code Chapter 2. 04.
         Council meetings will be scheduled on Tuesdays, or other days as necessary. All
         meetings will be held in the six-floor Hearing Room of the Public Service Center
         in Vancouver, unless otherwise noted.

      B Council time allows Councilors and staff to discuss pending matters of County
        business in a less formal setting. Minutes of Council Time will be taken by the
        County Manager or their designee via audio recording and uploaded to the County
         website at the conclusionofthemeeting. Executive sessions, if needed, generally
         will be scheduledat the end ofmeetings, but may be scheduledat any other time
         duringthese meetings if approved as an agendachangeat thebeginningofthe
         meeting or as soon as the neededadditionis knownby the County Managerand
         Chair.


      C. WhileCouncil Meetings canbe attendedin-person or virtually, it is preferred that
         Councilors attendRegularMeetings in-person.

V     SpecialMeetings
      Special Council meetings may be called pursuant to RCW 42. 30. 080. ROW
      42. 30. 080 includes who may call a special meeting and identifies how the special
      meeting will be noticed (e. g. 24-hour'snotice, provide a copy ofnotice to the public
      throughpublic announcement, local newspapers, on the County webpage, etc.).

VI.   Quomm
       A quomm is necessary for the transaction of council business. A majority of three (3)
       Councilors will constitute a quomm andis the minimum number ofvotes requiredto
       take any action, regardless ofthe number ofCouncilorspresent, providedpassageof
       ordinances, emergency ordinances and Council-initiated amendments are subject to
       the Chartervoting requirements.

VII.   Agenda, Conduct, Regular Meetings and SpecialBoard Council Hearings

       A. All TuesdayClark County Council meeting agendaswill be provided for the
          following order ofbusiness andwill beposted onlineby 5 pm on the preceding
          Wednesday.The time ofthemeeting shall beposted with the agendain all
          locations it appears online.

          i.         Pled e ofAlle iance
          ii.        Invocation
          wii.       Specialrecognition, if applicable
          »-.-Pledge ofAllegiance
          m-.--- Invocation
          iv.   Councilor roll call
          v.         Amendments to the Agenda
          v^vi.      0 en Public Comment and Public Comment on Consent and Se arate
                     Business Items
          -vqTvii.   Bid Awards, if applicable
          vHrviii. Public hearings matters, including public comment, if applicable
          vw-.- OpenPublic Comment and Public Comment on Consent and Separate
                     Business items
          ix.        Consent Agenda
          x.         Separate Business
          xl.        County Manager Report
          xii.       Adjourn

       B. The Countymanager, or their designee, is responsible for reviewingthe Council
          meeting agendaprior to posting.

       C. Any Councilormay request an item be removed from a Tuesdayconsent agenda
          for discussion.The Council will considerthat item as a separateitem ofbusiness.
          Approval ofconsent agendais by a simple majority voice vote ofthe Council.
          Agendas for Tuesday meetings will be posted in the sixth-floor Hearing Room,
          placed on the County website at www.clark.wa. ov and emailedon request at
          least four (4) calendar days before the meeting.
D. The County Manager has authority to place ordinances, resolutions and/or staff
    reports on theTuesdaymeeting agendaafterreview oftheproposed items with
    the Budget Director during their weekly review prior to the next regular meeting.

E. Except as provided in Section 8. 2 of the County Charter, a Councilor seeking to
   put an item on a Tuesday meeting agenda will bring the item to the Council Chair
   or the County Manager with the support of at least one other Councilor and the
   item will be placed on the Tuesdaymeeting agenda.No discussionor deliberation
   by more thantwo Councilors will occuruntil the open sessionoftheTuesday
    meeting.

F. All ordinanceswill be reviewed and signedby the ProsecutingAttorney, or
   designee,prior to actionby the Council.

G. The form, enactment, amendment, andrepeal ofthe Council ordinances;the
   nature and passageofCouncilresolutions; andthe nature andpassageofCouncil
   motions shall conform with Section 8. 1 through Section 8. 6 of the County
   Charter.


H. All matters coming before the County Council involving County funds will be
   presented in compliance with current budget guidelines and including, but not
   limited to, a fiscal note.

I. No motion will be debated unless seconded. When a motion is seconded, the
   Council Chair will say so, and Councilors will proceed with discussion then
   voting.

J. The Councilorproposing an amendmenthas theright to begindebateon the
   amendment when acknowledged by the chair.

K. County appointedofficials, elected officials or staffmay addressthe Council at
   the request ofany councilor or recognitionby the Council Chair.

L. Public Comment


       i. During a TuesdayCouncil meeting, anyindividual or spokespersonfor a
             group can address the Council one time for a total of three (3) minutes on
             any matter that is on Consent, Separate Business and/or any matter
             pertaining to county business. Speakers should sign in on the sheet
             provided at the meeting or raise a hand via virtual protocols. The Council
             Chair, or their designee, will call on each person at the appropriate time.
             Individuals providing public comment must state their name for the record
    and may not yield their time to add on to other individuals allotted time
    unless approved by the majority of the Council.

 ii. During a PublicHearing, any individualor spokesperson for a group can
     addressthe Council one time for a total ofthree (3) minutes. Speakers
     should signin on the sheetprovided at themeeting or raise a handvia
    virtual protocols. The Council Chair, or their designee, will call on each
    person at the appropriate time. Individualsprovidingpublic comment must
    state their name for the record andmay not yield their time to addon to
    other individuals allotted time unless approved by the majority of the
    Council.


iii. During Wednesday's Council Time, any individual or spokesperson for a
     group can address the Council for a total of three (3) minutes on any
    matter that is on the agenda. Speakers should sign in on the sheetprovided
    at the meeting or raise a hand via virtual protocols. The Council Chair, or
    their designee,will call on eachperson at the appropriate time. Individuals
    providing public comment must state their name for the record, state the
    specific agendaitem in whichthey are speakingandmay not yield their
    time to addon to otherindividuals allotted time unless approvedby the
    majority of the Council.

iv. During other Council meetings, public testimony on agendaitems maybe
    permitted eitherby law or by themajority ofthe Council. Ifpermitted, any
    individualor spokespersonfor a group can addressthe Council for a total
    ofthree (3) minutes on anymatter that is on the agenda. Speakers should
    sign in on the sheetprovide at the meeting or raise a handvia virtual
    protocols. The Council Chair, or their designee, will call on each person at
    the appropriate time. Individuals providing public comment must state
    theirname for therecord, state the specific agendaitem in whichthey are
    speakingabout and may not yield theirtime to addon to other individuals
    allotted time unless approved by the majority of the Council.

v. The Council may increaseor decreasethe three (3) minute allotted time
   and/ortotal amount oftime for public testimony ofall persons speakingon
    a particular topic upon approval by the majority of the Council.

vi. Persons addressing the Council will kee comments civil and related to
    Count business and refrain from statements that are disru tive to
    conductin Council business includin but not limited to interru tions
    dis ara in remarks and statements re ardin rivate activities. An
    Councilor ma ask for a oint of order and when reco nized the Chair
    Vice Chair or their desi nee ma ask an erson disru tin the business
            of the Council to cease such conduct, not make statements or remarks that
            concern: private activities, lifestyles, or beliefs of others, including
            individual County employees or elected officials; topics unrelated to the
            business of the County; or professional duties and performance of County
            employees or employees ofits elected officials. Persons addressing the
            Council will refrain from conduct, statements or remarks that arc
           defamatoryto County staff, uncivil, mde, \rulgar, profane, or othenvisc
           dismptive to conducting Council business. Depending on which Councilor
           is attendingthe meeting in person, the Chair,Vice Chairor their desigfiee^
           may ask anyperson making dismptive, disparagingor impertinent
           remarks, or unreasonablyinterrupting the businessofthe council to cease
           such conduct. Ifthe person continues to engagein suchprohibited
            statements, remarks or in such conduct, the Chair, Vice Chair or their
            designee may ask the person to leave the meeting. Continued disruptions
           may result in a recess of adjournment.

M. Courtesy, professionalism, andrespect will be maintainedat all times during
    County Council meeting.

N. Council mles maybe suspendedby a motion for a particularpurposeby the
   majority vote ofthe entire Council. If three (3) or four (4) members arepresent, at
   least three (3) votes arerequired to adopt a motion.

0. In the case of a 2-2 (tie vote) or 2-1 vote on any proposal, the motion fails to pass.
   In this event, a motion to reconsider or a motion to renew may be appropriate as
   described in the Rules of Procedure or Robert's Rules of Order.


P. Items may be added to the weekly Wednesday Council Ttime agenda and posted
   online by Fridayat noon.

        i. The County Manager, andtheir designeewith approval ofthe County
           Manager; and

       IL_a Councilor, so long as the Councilor takes the item to the Council Chair
           with support ofat least one (1) other Councilor andthe item will be placed
           on the WednesdayCouncil Time agenda.No discussionor deliberationby
           more thantwo Councilors will occuruntil the open sessionofthe
           WednesdayCouncil Time meeting.

 . Amendments to the weekl Council Time a enda:
      i. Removal ofA enda Items
               1. An Councilor and/or the Count Mana er ma ask the Council to
                  amend the a enda to remove an a enda item.


                                     10
                        2. The Chair will ask if there are an objections and if es the
                              Council will vote on the re uested action and roceed accordin 1 .
                        3. Members of the ublic ma rovide ublic testimon on removed
                             a enda items durin Public Comment.
                  ii. Addin A enda Items
                         1. An Councilor and/or the Count Mana er ma ask the Council to
                             amend the a enda to add an a enda item. An additions to the
                             a enda must be time sensitive in nature- whereb it cannot wait
                             until the next scheduled Council Time meetin .
                        2. The Chair will ask if there an ob'ections and if es the Council
                             will vote on the re uested action and roceed accordin 1 .
                        ttr3.        If the Council declines the re uested a enda item to be
                             added the re uester ma move forward in accordance with Section
                             VII, P.

VIII.   Work Sessions


        The Council may meet in Work Sessions as needed. Work Sessions requests must be
        approvedby at least three (3) Councilors and scheduledby the CountyManager.
        Work Sessions are to provide information that will update the Council on pending
        issues, provide pertinent policy-makinginformation, and/orprovide a final review of
        matters to comebeforethe Council at a regularmeeting or publichearing. Work
        sessions may be held any time, but typically are scheduled between 9 a.m. and noon
        on Wednesday. Minutes for Work Sessions will be taken by the County Manager or
        their designeevia audio recordinganduploadedto the County websiteat the
        conclusion of the session. There is no public comment during Work Sessions.

IX.     Executive Sessions


        The Council may meet in executive session only to discuss matters set forth in RCW
        42.30. 110. ROW42. 30. 110outlines agendaitems including,but not limited to,
        matters affectingnational security, compliancewithrequired datasecurity and
        infrastmcture, real estate, contract negotiations, evaluate qualifications for an
        applicant for public employment, legal matters, etc. Executive sessionsmust be an
        extensionofa properly noticed publicmeeting.At the end ofan executive session, the
        Council must reconvene in regular sessionto take action, if needed, and adjournthe
        public meeting.

X.      Minutes


        Action minutes will be kept of all regular and special meetings. Audio or video
        recordings will be kept for all Work Sessions and Council Time meetings. Minutes
        will be open and available to the public. Written minutes shall be promptly recorded

                                              11
        andinclude a summation ofactions from eachCouncil meeting and a record ofvotes.
        Writtenminutes must include a list ofCouncilors present and Councilors absent.
        Audio recordings will be uploaded to the County website. Minutes are not required
        for executive sessions.


XI.     Legal Opinions

        Requests to the ProsecutingAttorney for formal legal opinionsrelating to the County
        Council will be presented in writing and approvedby the County Manager, Council
        Chair, or a majority (3) ofthe Council.

XII.    Ad hoc, Special Committees and Task Forces

        Ad hoc, special committees and/ortask forces may be establishedas determined and
        recommendedby the Council. Eachwill dissolvewhenit has completed its duties and
        madeits final report. Appointments to suchgroups will be madeby the Council.

XIII.   Appointments to Boards, Conimittees and Task Forces

        A. The County Manager will appoint members of boards, commissions and task
           forces as provided by state law and The dark County Charter, and the
           appointments will be presented to the County Council during a regularmeeting.
           The Council will confirm or reject the appointments by a majority vote within 30
           calendar days. Failure of the Council to act within 30 calendar days constitutes
           acceptanceofthe appointment.

        B. The Council will have concurrent authority with the County Manager to nominate
           members ofthe dark County PlanningCommission, dark County Historic
           Preservation Commissionand Clark County Board ofEqualization.

        C. Any recommendation for appointmentmust be madewith the writtenresume of
           the candidate'squalifications,whichwill be includedwith the agendafor the
           appropriate Councilmeeting. Resumes arenot required for reappointments.

        D. Vacanciesonboards, commissions or task forces will be reported to the Council
           monthly.

        E. The county Manager will prepare a master list of current members of all boards,
           commissions andtask forces and theirterms ofappointment.

XIV.    County Operations




                                           12
      A. Open and closinghours ofthe Public Service Center (PSC), except for offices
         whereopeningand closinghours are otherwise set, will be 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.,
         Mondaythrough Friday. Pursuantto the dark County Code 2.08.010, hours may
         be adjustedwith the approval ofthe County Managerfor county departments or
         elected officials ofthat elected official's office. Only authorizedpersonnel,
         including County employees, may remain in the PSCoutside regularwork hours.
         Publicmeetings or hearingto beheld in the PSCat other times requires advanced
          notice to the Council office.


      B. Policies andrules related to purchaseofgoods and services for the County will be
         in accordancewithWashingtonlaw andthe dark County PurchasingOrdinance.

      C. The WashingtonStateAuditor's office, in compliancewiththe CountyAuditing
         Law,will conduct an annual, independentaudit of all County funds and accounts.

      D. The Clark County HumanResources Policy Manual will addresspertinent
         policies andproceduresrelating to salaries; employee benefits; general, sick, and
         other types ofleave; holidays;work hours; physical examination;retirement; and
         all matters ofpersonnel and employee relations.

      E. The Council will discuss andtake final action on salaries, wages, and other
         conditions ofemployment, as identifiedin the County Charter, in an openpublic
         meeting in accordancewith theWashingtonOpen PublicMeetingsAct. The
         exceptionis Council discussionsrelating to collective bargaining,including
         discussionsabout contractnegotiations, grievancemeetings andplanningor
         adopting strategies or positions to be taken during labor or professional
         negotiations or grievance or mediation proceedings (RCW 42. 30. 140(4)).

      F. A Councilor's use of staff time and/or concerns regarding County employees will
         be guidedby provisions set forth in Section2.6 ofthe County Charter.

XV.   County Budget

      A. The County Manager, with the BudgetDirector, will prepare andpresent annual
         budget assumptionsto the Council. The assumptions will outline policy
         guidelines for setting the County's annual budget, budgetreview, and all other
         budget supplemental amendments.

      B. These assumptions will follow Council directives andtake into consideration
         goals as set forth by the Council and all potential andknown legal and/or
         economic constraints at the time of consideration.




                                          13
      C. Before adoption of the annual budget, the County Manager, in conjunction with
          the BudgetDirector, will recommendthebudget, levy resolutions, and
          appropriationresolution to the Council. Pursuantto Washingtonstate law,
          adoption must be no later than the first week of December. Other budget
          modifications and supplemental actions will be scheduled, as needed, by the
          Council in accordancewiththe WashingtonStateAuditor's Office guidelinesand
          state law.Amendments to theproposed annual and supplemental budgetsmust be
          distributed to each Councilor at least forty-eight (48) hours before the meeting at
          whichit is to bepresented andwill beposted on-line. Nothingin this section
          prohibits the Council from adopting amendments at anypoint in theprocess,
          including during the public hearing.

      D. Effective eachJanuary 1 and thereafter, the BudgetDirector and Clark County
          Auditor, or their designees, will be authorized to make intra-fund line-item
          transfers withinthe same accountclass as deemednecessary.

      E. Quarterly reports form the Auditor and Budget office detailing a year-to-date
         expenditure and revenue analysis will be presented to the Council.


XVI. Vacancy in County Manager

      Whenthe County Managerpositionis vacant, the Council will appoint aninterim
      County Manageruntil the Council fills the vacancyin accordancewith the Charter.
XVII. Councilor Expenses
      Clark County Councilors receive a vehicle allowance as established by Policy. The
      dark County Councilors may be reimbursed for expenses for travel outside a 50-mile
      radius when incurred in the course of County business. Councilors wishing to request
      reimbursable expensesmust obtainprior written approval from the Chair. The Chair
      will determine if the request is relevant to theposition ofa Councilor, conferwith the
      County Manager to determine if there is funding available and evaluate the number
      and amount ofrequests, ensuring equity amongst Councilors. Suchreimbursable
      expensesinclude:
         .   Mileage for use of personal automobile
         .   Parking, toll fees
         .   Business meals
         .   Special events
         .   Lodging
         .   Air, bus, train, taxi travel
         .   Car rental
         .   Phone calls, fax transmission
         .   Registration fees

                                            14
       A. Mileage is reimbursed at the rate the Internal Revenue Service established
          annually. Mileage is calculated from the Councilor's workstation to the business
           destination.


       B. Local meal reimbursements are made in accordance with County Policy.

       C. Advancedtravel money is available for non-local travel. The money is limited to
          expensesoflodging, meals andground transportation and a maximum of$100per
          full- or part-day.

       D. Requests for reimbursement of such expenseswill be submitted with all relevant
          receipts to the appropriate Council staffperson for processing on a quarterly basis.

XVIII. Councilor Conduct


       A. Each Councilor is obligated to follow the Code of Ethical Conduct, as established
           in Clark County Code 2. 07.010, and CodeofProfessional Conduct for a Clark
           County Councilor.

       B. In the course ofrespondingto citizeninquiries, Councilors will weighall relevant
           points of view. If a meeting of the parties is necessary, Councilors are responsible
           for setting a non-threateningatmosphere and an appropriatetime frame.

       C. The Council encourages amendments to the County code that will enhance
          service to citizens. In reviewing such code changes, the Council will seek input
          from the County Manager, legal, appropriate county staff, residents and/or
          applicableboards and commissions. Suggestedcodelanguagewill be submitted
          by relevant staffwith legally sufficientnotice in advanceofany actionby the
          Council or PlanningCommission.

XIX.   Rules of Procedure


       A. These Rules ofProcedureare subject to the County Charter andRCW. In the
          event ofan inconsistencybetweenrules and the Charter, the Charterwill govern.
          In the event of any inconsistencybetweenthese rules andthe RCW, the RCWwill
          govern.

       B. All business of the dark County Council will be in conformity with these rules.
          In the absence of special rules covering the needs of the Council, or if an existing
          rule does not adequately cover the needs of the Council, the last edition of
          "Roberts Rules of Order" may be used as a reference, although strict adherence is
          not required.

                                            15
C. Amendments to these mles may be initiated by a Councilor. A proposed
   amendmentwill be distributedto eachCouncilor at lease five (5) days beforethe
   meeting at whichit is to bepresented.Amendments are adoptedby the majority
   vote (3) ofthe Council.

D. Council rules will be reviewed annuallyby the Council andinitially adopted, and
   thereafter, as amended, by ordinance by a majority vote (3) of the Council.




                                   16
                                           EXHIBIT 1



                                      Code of Professional

                                            Conduct


Preamble


The opportunity to serve thepublic confers a sacredtrust on the officeholder. Stewardshipofthe
public trust requires upholding the law and acting in ways consistent with the highest standards
ofethical conduct. The County Councilhas adopted this code ofprofessional conductto promote
the vitality ofthe democraticprocess in County government. The followingprinciples are
offered to encourage reflection in advance of decision making.

CodeofProfessional Conduct for the dark County Council - Principles

   I.      Councilors should promote decomm, respect for others and civility in all
           relationships.

           The honor ofholdingpublic officenecessitates that Councilorsbehavewith courtesy
           and respect for the dignity ofothers in all publicrelationships, includingwith elected
           officials, employees, citizens, media, andrepresentatives ofother governments.
           Councilors should affirm the value ofservicesprovidedby government andmaintain
           a constructive attitude about governmental affairs. Meetings of the Council should
           afford a prime opportunity for Councilors to promote and enhance respectful civil
           discourse.


   II.     Councilors should actively practice stewardship of the County's human, fiscal and
           material resources.


           Councilors should conservepublicresources and support the wisest andbest use of
           those resources, consistentwith the public interest andneed. Councilors should
           advocate for and encourageCounty employees to adoptpractices thatpromote the
           most efficient, effective, and ethical conduct in the delivery ofCounty services.

   III.    Councilors should strive for excellence and continuous learningrelative to personal
           development andall operations ofCounty government.

   IV.     Councilors shouldperform the duties ofpublic officewith fairness andimpartiality so
           to enhancepublic confidencein County government.



                                               17
      Councilors should engagein conductthat promotes Countyprocesses andpractices
      that contribute to equity andimpartiality. Councilors should support equal
      employment opportunity andvigorously oppose discriminationofany kind in County
      affairs.


V     Absences of County Councilors

      County Councilors are expected to fulfill the obligations oftheir office through the
      duration oftheir term. This includes attendance at all Council meetings, including
      Work Sessions, Council Time, andTuesday Council meetings, as well as coinmittees,
      boards, and commissions to which the Councilor is appointed to represent the dark
      County Council.

      If a Councilor anticipates an absence for any reason, the Councilor must provide
      notice as soon as practicable, to the Council Chairand County Manager. Except in the
      caseofunforeseen emergency. Councilors should employ a good faith effort in
      providing the notice, and reason, for the absence five (5) calendar days in advance. At
      the meeting in whichthe Councilor is absent, the Council Chairshall acknowledge
      the Councilor absence during the roll call on the agenda.

VI.   Violation of the Code of Professional Conduct.


      A. If a violation of the Code ofProfessional Conduct is alleged, the Council should
         listen to the complaint, review the infonnation, and determine whether a violation
         has occurred. Allegations of a violation of the Code of Professional Conduct must
         bebrought forwardwithinone (1) year after the datewhenthe allegedviolation
         occurred or wheneverthe allegedviolation wasmadeknownto the personmaking
         the complaint, whichever occurs last.

      B. If the Council finds that a violation of this Code of Professional Conduct has
         occurred, the Council may:

            i.   Find that the complaint presents a violation of the Code of Professional
                 Conduct,but that anyviolation that mayhave occurred doesnot constitute
                 a material violation because it was inadvertent and de minimus, or has
                 been cured and, after considerationofall the circumstances, further
                 punitive measureswould not serve thepurpose ofthis Code of
                 Professional Conduct; or

           ii.   Issue a final written order imposing one or more ofthe following:

                 a. To cease and desist violation of the Code of Professional Conduct;
                    and/or


                                            18
b. Public admonishment; and/or

c. Public resolution of censure with removal of the violator from all
   committees on which the person is representing the County




                        19
Count     Facili    Tres ass Polic

Pur ose: This olic is intended to establish a framework for excludin   eo Ie en a ed in rohibited
activities in the dark Count Public Services Center or other Count o erated buildin s.

1 - Prohibited Activities

The Count Public Services Center and other Count facilities are rimaril used to conduct and rovide
 ovenunental services. Activit or behavior is disru tive or dis ara in if it unreasonabl interferes with
other ublic users of Count facilities as detemiined b the Council Chair or their desi nee. Individuals
ma be excluded from Count Facilities for en a in in Prohibited Activities includin violatin Count
code state law or other ado led or ai roved written Count olicies ovemin use of Count Facilities.
Violation s must be documented and ma be enforced throu h the a ro' riate enforcement mechanism.
This ma also include a olice-issued infraction or citation or an arrest for criminal activit .

Exam les of Prohibited Activit include en a in in dan erous or disru tive behavior or committin
criminal acts while at Count Facilities. A non-exhaustive list of exam les of ProhibitedActivities
includes the followin :

     .   Loud and/or re etitive noises includin a raised voice electronic/recorded sounds or ercussive
         sounds;
     .   Comments that are demeanin or dis ara in a ainst other individuals includin             but not limited
         to race color sex sexual orientation national ori in reli ion or creed disabilit        a e and
         marital status.
     .   Dis la in bri htorflashin li hts-
     .   Releasin excessive!       foul odors or substances-
     .   Exhibitin a       ressive or threatenin   h sical behavior- and
     .   Usin a facilit for a u       ose for which it was not intended e.     bathin in restroom

When Prohibited Activit       occurs Count     staff will make reasonable efforts to notif the individual
conductin the Prohibited Activit that this Polic is bein violated and ask that the Prohibited Activit
sto unless it is clear from the circumstances that attem ts to sto the Prohibited Activit would be futile
or unsafe. Re ardless of whether such notification or re uest has been made if the erson continues
en a in in Prohibited Activit the will be asked to leave the Count Facilit immediatel . If that
individual then refuses to leave the Count Facilit the Issuin OfiTicial ma tres ass them b issuin a
Notice of Tres ass effective for one da to one ear de endin u on the circumstances.

2-Sco e

ThisPolic    a     lies to the ortions of Count Facilities o en to the ublic. Members of the ublichavea
libert interest rotectedb       the Due Process Clause of the United States Constitution to be resent at and
remain in laces enerall o en to the ublic sub'ect to reasonable behavioral re uirements. The Count
has an im ortant interest in rotectin ublic health safet and welfare from those who violate laws
re ulations and mles a licable to ublic laces. This Polic does not a 1 to areas of Count Facilities
closed to ublic access. If a member of the ublic enters an area closed to ublic access the ma be
sub'ect to criminal tres ass ursuant to RCW 9A. 52. 070 or RCW 9A. 52. 080.

3-Im lementation

3. 1 Issuin" Official


                                                        20
The Count Mana er is res onsible for desi natin the osition or individual res onsible for determinin
a violation of this Polic and com letin the Notice of Tres ass as the Issuin Official,

3.2 Notice ofTres ass

The Issuin Official will com lete the Notice ofTres ass in the fomi referenced in Section 5 ofthis
Polic   to include the followin :

1. The h sical location of the exclusion

2. Abrief factual basis for the exclusion includin   Prohibited Activit conducted-

3. The duration of the exclusion-

4. The conse uences for failure to corn 1 with the Notice of Tres ass-and

5. The ri lit to a. eal.

3. 3 Basis for Exclusion

Individuals ma be excluded from Count Facilities for en a in in Prohibited Activit        ursuant to
Section 1 of this Polic .

3. 4 Detennination to Issue Notice

A decision to issue a Notice ofTres ass and exclude an individual constitutes a determination that
allowin that individual to remain at the ublic ro ert creates a risk to the ublic's health safet and
welfare or im edes the Coun 's abili to erfonn its function without unreasonable disru tion and that
immediate removal is warranted. Exam les ma include but not limited to activities listed in Article 1 -
Prohibited Activities. Exclusion from ublic ro ert o en to the ublic is a si nificant remed and is not
warranted for all violations.

3. 5 Issuin the Notice

Once the Issuin Official detemiines exclusion from a Count Facilit is warranted the Issuin Official
with assistance from a dark Coun ' Sheriff's Ofifice CCSO de ut' as available will com lete the
Notice of Tres ass in the form referenced in Section 5 of this Polic   and make a di italco;   for Count
records either b takin a hoto of the fon"a or creatin a scanned ima e.

The Issuin Official or a CCSO officer Count securit officer buildin coordinator or other desi nee
will then rovide the erson en a ed in the Prohibited Activit the com leted Notice of Tres ass alon
with the fomi of Count Facilit Tres assA ealA lication referenced in Section 6 of this Polic . If
 ersonal delive is not feasible or is refused the Issuin Official will attem t to rovide the individual
with the corn leted Notice of Tres assfomib mailin it to their last known address if available.

3. 6 Enforcement

An law enforcement officer authorized b law to enforce the criminal laws ofWashin ton State
includin but not limited to CCSO officers ma enforce the Notice of Tres ass and resultin exclusion.

3. 7 Tres ass Monitorin

The Count Mana er's Office will coordinate and monitor the sco e and duration of each Notice of
Tres ass issued under this Polic


                                                     21
4-Appeal

ANoticeofTres assis sub'ect to a eal. The Notice of Tres ass is full enforceable while under a eal.
All erson issued a Notice ofTres ass ma a eal the Notice ofTres ass. The a i eal is an
administrative review conducted b an A. eal Hearin Administrator desinated b the Count Mana er
and will result in a detennination to u hold modif or re eal the Notice of Tres ass.

4. 1 Appeal Application

An a     eal must be subniitted usin the Count Facilit Tres assA        ealA    lication referenced in Section
6 of this Polic and must be received b the A eal Heahn" Administrator within seven business da s
followin the Count 's issuance of the Notice ofTres ass sub'ecttoa eal. The A ealA licationmust
thorou hi describe the circuiiistances'ustif in modification or re eal of the Notice ofTres ass.

4. 2 Timin

Within seven business da s of receivin acomleteA ealA lication th A eal Hearin
Administrator will schedule a hearin . A written notice of the hearin date time and location location
ma be virtual will be rovided to the A ellant at the email or mailin address rovided on the A eal
A lication and the Issuin Official at least two business da s in advance of the hearin . The A eal
Hearin Administrator ma at their discretion and in the interest of iustice ost one the hearin date b
u to 14 business da s.

4. 3 A   eal Hearin Process

The a    eal hearin will roceed as follows:

1. An written materials will be rovided to the A     eal Hearin Administrator and the other art b the
be innin ofthehearin orb an other timeframe establishedb the A                 eal Hearin Administrator.
An written briefin ma not exceed three a es excludin exhibits.

2. Oral ar uments ma be resented b each side. Unless the A eal Hearin Administrator determines
additional time is necessa due to extenuatin circumstances each art will have no more than 10
minutes to resent ar uments. Ar uments will be in with the A       ellant followed b the Issuin Official.
The A. ellant shall have u; to five additional minutes for rebuttal.

3. As art of the oral ar uments and sub'ecf to the time limitations for those resentations each side ma
 resent evidence includin callin witnesses.

4. 4. Burden of Proof

The Count bears the burden of roofb a re onderance of the evidence that issuance of the Notice of
Trespass was appropriate.

4. 5 Final Decision

The A eal Hearin Administrator ma make an oral decision at the hearin . Re ardless of whether an
oral decision is issued a written decision will be issued within five business da s of the a eal hearin

1. The decision shall be rovided to the A     ellant at the address listed on the a   eal foim and to the
    Issuin Official.




                                                    22
2.   The decision will address the issues raised in the a        eal hearin . The decision must state the rounds
     u on which it is based. An oral or written decision on the a        eal will be final once it is issued sub'ect
     to a   eal as a etition for writ of certiorari   ursuant to Cha ter 7. 1 6 RCW.

4. 6 Waiver

IftheA      ellantfailstoa    ear at the hearin   the A        ealHearin Administrator ma find that A       ellant
has waived their a; eal and u hold the Notice ofTres ass.

5 - County Facilit Notice ofTres ass Form

The fonn of Count Facilit Notice of Tres ass is attached to this Polic as Count Facilit Tres ass
Polic Fonn 1 which form ma be u dated from time to time to effectuate im lementationofthisPolic

6 - Count Facilit Tres ass A          eal A    lication

The fonn of Count Facilit TresassA ealA lication is attachedto this Polic as Count Facilit
Tres; ass Polic Fomi 2 which fonn ma be u dated from time to time to effectuate im lementation of
this Polic .




                               APPROVED:March27, 2001
                               APPROVED: Febmary 17, 2017
                               APPROVED: March 29, 2017
                               APPROVED: May 7, 2019
                               APPROVED: April 19, 2022
                               APPROVED: May 26, 2023
                               APPROVED: March 26, 2024
                               APPROVED:                              Febma 4 2025




                                                          23
24
