                                                             Memorandum

Date:         October 12, 2026

To:           Mayor and City Council

From:         Lon Pluckhahn, City Manager

Re:           Climate-Smart and Healthy Homes

CC:           Lexi Farina, CMO

Purpose
Inform Council about opportunities to advance the City’s climate, health, affordability,
and resilience goals by supporting improvements to existing residential homes. The
workshop will summarize what staff learned about the current landscape, resident
needs, and potential opportunities and considerations for future City involvement.

Context
Buildings account for 37% of Vancouver’s
communitywide GHG emissions, with
residential buildings representing the largest
share (Figure 1). At the same time, residents
are increasingly experiencing the effects of
extreme heat, wildfire smoke, and rising
household energy costs in their homes. While
the Council-adopted Green Building Policy
strengthens standards for new construction,
there is no comparable policy framework for
existing single-family and smaller residential
buildings, leaving improvements largely
voluntary.
 Most of the homes that will be in use in 2040
                                                        Figure 1: Sources of Communitywide
already exist today. Supporting improvements to         Greenhouse Gas Emissions (2023)
existing homes is therefore crucial to achieving the
City’s goal of carbon neutrality by 2040 and helping
residents adapt to the changing climate.




        P.O. Box 1995 | Vancouver, WA 98668-1995 | 360-487-8000 | cityofvancouver.us
What we explored
Over the past year, staff conducted research and community conversations to better
understand the landscape for climate-friendly home improvements in Vancouver. The
work focused on answering three questions:
   1. What is the local opportunity? Housing stock, household characteristics, and
       climate vulnerability.
   2. What support already exists? Existing programs, resources, and opportunities for
       coordination.
   3. What do residents need and want? Priorities, barriers, and desired types of
       support.

Local Housing Context
Staff reviewed housing characteristics such as ownership status and age of the housing
stock as well as existing climate vulnerability data to better understand where need and
opportunities may be concentrated. Older homes, for example, may have greater
opportunities for energy efficiency, weatherization, and other improvements.

A notable housing characteristic is that Vancouver’s housing tenure is nearly evenly split
between owners and renters. Homeowners generally have greater control over
improvements, whereas renters depend on property owners to make most significant
changes. These different circumstances require different approaches to supporting
improvements. Additionally, larger multifamily buildings are required by the WA Clean
Buildings Performance Standard to make energy efficiency improvements, while smaller
rental properties have few, if any, requirements and available resources. Therefore,
these smaller properties may represent an opportunity to reach homes where
improvements are mainly voluntary and often depend on available support.

The full background report is available in Attachment A.

Existing Programs
Vancouver residents can already access a range of resources and programs through the
City, local utilities, Clark County, and the state. These programs provide an important
foundation for supporting home repairs, energy efficiency, weatherization, and
electrification. The table below summarizes what exists today and the reach it has
achieved.
 Program                  Administrator   Primary audience   Type of support    Recent Reach*

 Housing Rehabilitation                   Income-eligible    Home repairs,      ~10 households/year
                          City
 Program                                  homeowners         weatherization

                                                             Limited electric   53 households (2025)
                                          Income-eligible
 HEAR                     City                               equipment and
                                          homeowners
                                                             appliances




        P.O. Box 1995 | Vancouver, WA 98668-1995 | 360-487-8000 | cityofvancouver.us
 Clark Public Utilities   Clark Public                             Energy efficiency    2,400+ households
                                           Residential customers
 Rebates and Incentives   Utilities                                improvements         (2025, Clark County)

 Energy Trust of Oregon   Energy Trust                             Energy efficiency    208 residential sites
                                           Residential customers
 Rebates and Incentives   of Oregon                                improvements         (2025, Clark County)

                                           Income-eligible                              ~85 households/year
 Weatherization
                          Clark County     households (majority    Weatherization       (Clark County)
 Assistance
                                           homeowners)
*Reach figures are reported differently across programs and are provided for context.

Earlier this year, staff convened program administrators to better understand the
existing program landscape, identify gaps, and explore opportunities for coordination.
The discussion highlighted differences in eligibility, reach, capacity, and services offered.
A key gap is residents who exceed income limits for assistance but may still face barriers
to affording improvements. Existing programs also have limited capacity. For example,
the City’s Housing Rehabilitation Program has a waitlist of approximately 80–100
applicants, with wait times of up to two years.

Programs also tend to address specific improvements rather than the whole home which
may require residents to navigate multiple programs to address different needs. For
example, the HEAR program provides high-efficiency electric equipment and appliances
but does not cover weatherization, which can limit the benefits of HVAC improvements.
Better coordination could help residents identify and sequence improvements and make
better use of available resources. Finally, gaps in existing support for fuel-switching
improvements may create an opportunity for additional City involvement to reduce
building-related emissions.

Community Engagement
Staff engaged homeowners, renters, small property owners, and residents who
participated in the HEAR program. Several themes emerged:

    •   Residents generally prioritize affordable operating costs, healthy indoor air, and
        functional homes. Residents focus on the day-to-day experience of living in their
        home and the ability to remain safely and comfortably in their home over time,
        including as they grow older.
    •   Homeowners want practical support to figure out what to do and how to do it.
        Participants expressed strong interest in support to understand their home’s
        needs, access programs and trusted providers, and navigate the process. They
        also shared concerns about finding reliable contractors and understanding how
        to use new technologies.
    •   Rental housing requires approaches that address both tenant and property-
        owner needs. Renters were interested in energy-efficiency education and low-
        cost energy efficiency improvements they can make themselves. Property owners



         P.O. Box 1995 | Vancouver, WA 98668-1995 | 360-487-8000 | cityofvancouver.us
       prioritized tenant experience and property maintenance but were more receptive
       to climate-friendly improvements when there was a financial incentive or clear
       benefit. Participants specifically asked for information about available rebates
       and incentives and some mentioned that rebates influenced their decision to
       install a heat pump.

Potential approaches for City support
The research suggests several potential levels of City involvement that could build on
existing programs and partnerships. These approaches are not mutually exclusive and
can be tailored to different audiences and desired program outcomes.

   •   Inform. Provide practical education about energy efficiency, technology options,
       and available programs and incentives. Community feedback favored live,
       interactive workshops over static online tools as residents indicated that
       opportunities to ask questions and receive information directly were more useful
       for this topic. For renters, this could include information about improvements
       within their control. The rental registry could also provide a channel for reaching
       property owners and renters. This approach could reach a broad audience at
       relatively low cost but would be less likely to enable substantial improvements or
       overcome barriers such as upfront costs.
   •   Navigate. Provide personalized assistance to help residents understand their
       home's needs, connect with existing programs and incentives, and find trusted
       providers. Community feedback showed that residents request support not only
       identifying available resources, but also determining what steps to take, in what
       order, and how different programs or improvements fit together. This type of
       support could also help residents and property owners make better use of
       existing resources as well as coordinate multiple programs to maximize benefits.
       However, it would reach fewer residents than a broad information approach,
       require greater staff capacity, and would not address limited availability or
       waitlists for programs that are already at capacity.
   •   Fund. Provide financial assistance to address upfront costs, complement existing
       rebates and programs, or fill gaps for residents who exceed the income limits for
       current assistance. Upfront cost was a commonly cited barrier to larger home
       improvements, suggesting that financial assistance could enable improvements
       residents may otherwise be unable to afford. This could support larger-scale
       changes (such as replacing appliances or heating systems) that can achieve
       greater GHG reductions. However, this approach would likely reach fewer homes
       than lower-cost options and require greater City investment.

Next Steps
Staff looks forward to hearing Council feedback on the potential roles outlined above
and which opportunities may warrant further exploration. Staff will use this feedback to


       P.O. Box 1995 | Vancouver, WA 98668-1995 | 360-487-8000 | cityofvancouver.us
inform future work on how the City could complement existing programs and
partnerships to support climate-friendly improvements to existing residential homes.

Staff Contact
Lexi Farina, City Manager’s Office, lexi.farina@cityofvancouver.us

Attachments
Attachment A: Climate-Friendly and Healthy Homes Background Report




       P.O. Box 1995 | Vancouver, WA 98668-1995 | 360-487-8000 | cityofvancouver.us
Attachment A: Climate-Friendly and Healthy Homes
Background Report




    P.O. Box 1995 | Vancouver, WA 98668-1995 | 360-487-8000 | cityofvancouver.us
Residential Decarbonization
in Vancouver
Local Context, Current Gaps, and
Pathways Forward

March 5, 2026
Vancouver Waterfront




      Table of contents
      INTRODUCTION ................................................................................ 3

      KEY POINTS ........................................................................................ 4

      WHAT IS DECARBONIZATION? ................................................. 5

      PROBLEM OVERVIEW ..................................................................... 5

      REVIEW OF EXISTING INITIATIVES .......................................... 8

      LOCAL CONTEXTUAL FACTORS ............................................. 11

      RECOMMENDED AREAS FOR CITY ACTION ................... 18

      NEXT STEPS ..................................................................................... 20

      CITATIONS                ..................................................................................... 21
   CITY OF VANCOUVER | RESIDENTIAL DECARBONIZATION BACKGROUND REPORT | MARCH 5, 2026                                      2
Burnt Bridge Creek




                                                  Introduction
                                                  Imagine you live in a single-family home built in
                                                  the 1950s. In July, the first heat wave of the
                                                  summer rolls in with temperatures much warmer
                                                  than you are used to in past years. By mid-
                                                  afternoon, the sun shines in and your house traps
                                                  the heat. With no air conditioning and little
                                                  insulation, as is common in older Vancouver
                                                  homes, finding relief is difficult. Fast forward to
                                                  February, you crank up your old furnace one cold
                                                  morning to keep the chill away. It runs
                                                  constantly to make up for the drafts slipping
                                                  through the walls and windows. You find comfort
                                                  in the moment, but only to face disappointment
                                                  later when the utility bill arrives.

                                                  Now imagine a different experience. A trained
                                                  contractor helps you through a simple process to
                                                  upgrade your home, including adding insulation,
                                                  sealing leaks, and installing a high-efficiency
                                                  electric heat pump that provides both heating
                                                  and cooling. You can now enjoy every season
                                                  knowing your home stays comfortable and
                                                  operates efficiently, giving you greater peace of
                                                  mind that your energy bills remain more
                                                  predictable and affordable.

                                                  These are the kinds of changes a residential
                                                  decarbonization program can make possible:
                                                  safer and more comfortable homes that cost less
                                                  to operate and reduce greenhouse gas
                                                  emissions.

                                                  As an initial step toward developing such a
                                                  program focused on Vancouver’s existing
                                                  residential buildings, this document explains
                                                  why this type of program is needed, highlights
                                                  existing initiatives to build upon, and provides
                                                  key local context to guide its design.




  CITY OF VANCOUVER | RESIDENTIAL DECARBONIZATION BACKGROUND REPORT | MARCH 5, 2026                     3
Key Points
Problem Statement

Vancouver’s homes are increasingly vulnerable to climate and energy resource pressures. Extreme
weather events, rising temperatures, wildfire smoke, and high energy burdens create unsafe and
costly living conditions. At the same time, buildings account for 37% of the City’s communitywide
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and residential energy drives the largest share. Without action, the
most vulnerable residents will continue to face these hazards, while ongoing reliance on fossil fuels
locks in emissions that intensify climate impacts citywide.

Proposed Solution

Residential decarbonization reduces greenhouse gas emissions from homes by using less energy,
improving energy efficiency, and cutting reliance on fossil fuels. Interventions not only help
Vancouver meet its climate goals, but also importantly deliver direct economic and health benefits for
residents and the community. Interventions can make homes healthier, safer, and more comfortable
during extreme heat and wildfire smoke events by improving indoor air quality and temperature
control, while also lowering energy bills and supporting a more stable electrical grid. Further,
investments in electrification and renewable energy can create local jobs, build skills in the regional
workforce, and expand opportunities for workers and contractors from historically underrepresented
communities.

Opportunities for City Action

While strong local and state programs exist, their scale and scope must be expanded to meet
community needs and climate goals. Key opportunities for City action and considerations for program
design focused on the decarbonization of residential buildings are described below. Considered
actions target existing residential buildings, which offer the greatest potential for impact, as new
single-family and middle housing must already meet the Washington State Residential Energy Code,
and new multifamily development must comply with the City’s Green Building Program.

   1. Explore opportunities to scale or complement existing weatherization and electrification
      programs.
   2. Add or enhance programs to support whole-home, correctly sequenced upgrades (e.g., insulation
      before efficient appliances) to maximize benefits.
   3. Support residential electrification efforts as they offer some of the largest emissions-reduction
      potential.
   4. Create pathways for renters and small multifamily buildings with tenant protections.
   5. Improve outreach, coordination, and program navigation of existing and new residential
      decarbonization programs.
   6. Target program efforts towards residents who experience combined risks from climate impacts,
      social inequities, and health vulnerabilities. This may include residents in areas with poor air
      quality or high heat exposure, low-income households with high energy burdens, and the “near-
      eligible” residents who often exceed income limits for federal and state programs.




CITY OF VANCOUVER | RESIDENTIAL DECARBONIZATION BACKGROUND REPORT | MARCH 5, 2026                  4
What is Decarbonization?
Decarbonization is one of the most important ways communities can respond to climate change.
There are two main parts to decarbonization. First, it involves reducing greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions that come from burning fossil fuels like gas, oil, and coal. This can be done by switching to
renewable energy sources such as wind, solar, hydropower, and geothermal as well as using
electricity instead of fossil fuels to power buildings and appliances. Improving energy efficiency is also
a key part of this work as homes that use less energy put less strain on energy systems and produce
fewer emissions overall. The second part of decarbonization focuses on removing carbon already in
the atmosphere through approaches which capture emissions or increase the carbon stored in natural
systems, like forests and soil (Cho, 2022). This report focuses on residential decarbonization, a subset
of decarbonization which addresses emissions from existing residential buildings. These emissions
primarily come from the energy used to heat and cool buildings, produce hot water, cook food, and
power household appliances.



Problem Overview
This section outlines the intersecting climate, health, energy, and housing challenges affecting
Vancouver’s homes as well as how homes, in turn, affect the climate. Understanding these issues
provides the foundation for why residential decarbonization is needed and what it must address.


Climate and Housing Challenges
Vancouver faces longstanding housing challenges that affect residents’ ability to stay safe and
healthy. Housing affordability is a persistent issue, with median home prices nearly tripling and
average rents increasing by 60 percent from 2012 to 2023 (Bump et al., 2024). Many households spend
a large share of their income on rent or mortgage payments, and over one-quarter of renters pay
more than half of their income on housing. The City also faces a shortage of safe and affordable
housing, with current estimates indicating that 38,129 additional housing units will be needed in
Vancouver by 2045 to meet the demands of a growing population (Bump et al., 2024). These pressures
leave families with limited resources to maintain their homes, invest in energy efficiency, or respond
to emergency repairs, making them more vulnerable to both financial hardship and displacement. In a
recent Community Needs Assessment Survey conducted by Clark County, low-income residents
reported food, housing, and utility assistance within their top five needs (Clark County Community
Services, 2024).

These social and economic pressures create a foundation of vulnerability that climate change is now
intensifying. Annual air temperatures in the region have risen by almost 2 degrees Fahrenheit since
1900, and more frequent heat events now push indoor temperatures to dangerous levels for residents
living in older, poorly insulated homes or without air-conditioning (Michael Chang et al., 2023).
Prolonged exposure to high heat can place significant strain on the heart and other vital organs. This
was shown during the 2021 Heat Dome, which caused record breaking temperatures that killed 126
Washingtonians and contributed to the deadliest weather-related disaster in Washington state history
(Vogel et al., 2023). These same homes that overheat in the summer often struggle to retain heat in
the winter, leaving residents vulnerable during cold periods. Homes with inadequate insulation or
persistent dampness can contribute to respiratory and cardiovascular issues (World Health

CITY OF VANCOUVER | RESIDENTIAL DECARBONIZATION BACKGROUND REPORT | MARCH 5, 2026                     5
Organization, 2018). Together, these conditions show that inadequate housing performance can turn
extreme weather into serious public health risk within homes.

In addition to temperature extremes, indoor air quality is also increasingly affected by climate change
and local pollution sources. Vancouver is identified by the Washington Department of Ecology as one
of the 16 communities in the state most impacted by air pollution due to the cumulative impacts of
recurring wildfire risks, resident proximity to highways, and exposure to industrial activities
(Washington State Department of Ecology, 2023). As a result, residents in these communities die an
average of 2.4 years earlier than those in the rest of the state, and are twice as likely to have poor
health (Washington State Department of Ecology, 2023). Wildfire events throughout the West bring
high concentrations of particulate matter to Vancouver, specifically tiny particles known as PM2.5,
which can cause adverse respiratory health effects (BERK Consulting, 2025). Local industrial emissions
also contribute to air pollution exposure, particularly for residents living near major facilities such as
Frito Lay, Great Western Malt, SEH America, and the River Road Generating Plant. In addition to these
outdoor sources, indoor air quality can be further degraded by fossil-fuel appliances within homes.
Gas stoves and other gas appliances produce nitrogen dioxide and release PM2.5 which increases the
risk of respiratory diseases such as asthma, especially in children (Seals, 2020).

Energy affordability – or lack of affordability – compounds these risks. When families struggle to
afford the electricity needed for cooling, heating, or ventilation, their health and safety suffer.
Households may be forced to choose between essential needs such as electricity, water, medications,
groceries, and other basic expenses. Missed utility bills can trigger debt collection and utility shutoffs
which creates financial hardships that are difficult to recover from and may lead to cascading impacts
over time. Research also shows a higher energy burden is associated with increased rates of mental
distress and physician-diagnosed depression (Han et al., 2024). In Washington, households that spend
more than 6% of their income on energy are considered energy-burdened, and roughly 9% of very low-
income households statewide experience this burden (Rubin et al., 2023). While county-specific data
are unavailable, Clark Public Utilities reports that more than 4,000 families in Clark County receive
federal Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) grants each year to help eligible
residents pay to heat their homes, regardless of heating type (Clark Public Utilities, n.d.). This
highlights the level of need in the community, although it reflects only those who access the program
and may therefore underrepresent the true level of need. These pressures limit residents’ ability to
take other actions to adapt to extreme temperatures and maintain healthy homes.

These housing-related climate impacts are also connected to pressures on the region’s energy system.
Rising temperatures increase the need for home cooling, which places additional stress on the
electrical grid, especially because electricity flows less efficiently during extreme heat (Michael
Chang et al., 2023). This combination heightens the risk of outages that directly affect household
safety and comfort, for instance by disrupting home cooling during extreme heat or interrupting the
operation of essential in-home medical and assistive devices that rely on electricity. Additionally, the
resulting system strain can translate into higher energy rates for residents down the line. At the same
time, earlier snowmelt and more frequent droughts are expected to limit the capacity of hydropower
generation and further strain the region’s hydro-dependent grid (Michael Chang et al., 2023).


Building Sector Emissions
As climate impacts intensify, it is important to recognize that buildings themselves are a major source
of emissions driving climate change. In Vancouver, the Buildings and Energy sector is the second
largest source of communitywide emissions, accounting for 37% of total GHG emissions. Residential
energy use – energy used where people live, eat and sleep – makes up the largest share within this


CITY OF VANCOUVER | RESIDENTIAL DECARBONIZATION BACKGROUND REPORT | MARCH 5, 2026                     6
sector at 15%, although residential buildings have lower emissions intensity compared to commercial
and industrial buildings (City of Vancouver Climate Program, 2024).

From 2019-2023, total energy use increased in Vancouver’s residential building sector. However, GHG
emissions remained steady overall and even decreased for some electric customers (City of
Vancouver Climate Program, 2024). This is due to the increasing share of clean energy in the Clark
Public Utilities (CPU) resource mix. In 2024, CPU sourced approximately 48% of its electricity from
Bonneville Power Administration hydropower, 29% from the River Road natural gas–fired plant, 6%
from nuclear power, 5% from wind, and 12% from market purchases of unspecified power sources
(Clark Public Utilities, 2024). In contrast, natural gas use and resulting emissions both increased by 5%
over the same period (City of Vancouver Climate Program, 2024).

This pattern reflects current household fuel use: approximately 67% of residential heating relies on
electricity, while 31% relies on utility gas, with small shares from wood (0.5%), bottled or tank gas
(0.4%), and fuel oil (0.2%) (U.S. Census Bureau, 2024). Because electricity and gas are on different
decarbonization trajectories, this split has important emissions implications. In Washington, the Clean
Energy Transformation Act (CETA), requires an electricity supply free of GHG emissions by 2045
(Washington State Department of Commerce, 2024). As a result, homes heated with electricity will
increasingly benefit from a cleaner grid over time. In contrast, continued reliance on natural gas will
constrain emissions reductions. NW Natural has adopted a voluntary decarbonization target of 30%
carbon savings by 2035, but has so far been unsuccessful in meeting its self-imposed targets and had
only ~1% renewable natural gas production in 2024 (NW Natural, 2021) (Samayoa, 2026).


Importance of Residential Decarbonization
Given the intersecting climate, health, and energy challenges, residential decarbonization offers a
critical pathway to improve household financial, physical, and emotional well-being and meet the
City’s climate goals. Residential decarbonization refers to the suite of methods to reduce GHG
emissions from homes (ASHRAE, n.d.). This includes strategies to reduce energy demand through
weatherization, efficiency upgrades, and everyday energy-saving behaviors, alongside electrification,
fuel switching, and the use of clean energy to reduce emissions.

This work is central to meeting the emissions and equity goals outlined in Vancouver’s Climate Action
Framework (CAF). The CAF calls for a transition to 100% clean energy and a significant reduction in
per capita energy use to reach carbon neutrality by 2040 (City of Vancouver, 2022). Because
investments in homes last for many decades, any choices made today, whether through new
construction or retrofit projects, will have long-term implications. Without intentional action, the
community risks locking in carbon-intensive systems that will be difficult and expensive to replace
later.

Residential decarbonization also delivers everyday benefits for residents and the community. Better
insulation, efficient heat pumps and household appliances, and improved ventilation make homes
safer and more comfortable during extreme heat, cold, and wildfire smoke events. Reduced energy
use helps stabilize the grid and avoid cost spikes. Building upgrades may also lower utility bills,
improve air quality, and support long-term housing stability. For example, a recent study of the
Cascadia region found that 76% of low-income households, including both homeowners and renters,
could save on average $500 annually on energy bills by upgrading to a medium-efficiency heat pump,
assuming they can overcome the upfront costs (Pelai & Moore, 2025). At the same time, investments in
electrification and renewable energy can create local jobs, build skills in the regional workforce, and
expand opportunities for workers and contractors from historically underrepresented communities.
Together, these interventions help build a safe and more resilient community as climate risks grow.

CITY OF VANCOUVER | RESIDENTIAL DECARBONIZATION BACKGROUND REPORT | MARCH 5, 2026                     7
However, the residential sector is complex. It involves a wide range of decision-makers, including
homeowners, renters, landlords, property managers, and contractors who each bring different
priorities, resources, and access to information. High upfront costs and the time investment needed
for upgrades can deter investment for many households. For instance, to purchase and install an air
source heat pump in Vancouver costs approximately $13,0001, and is generally more expensive
upfront than fossil-fuel heating due to expensive manufacturing and labor as well as potential
electrical upgrades needed to support the system (Pelai & Moore, 2025). Renters often lack authority
to make major improvements, while property owners may not be incentivized to make investments
when utility costs are typically paid by residents. There is also a need to ensure that any
improvements landlords make to properties do not unintentionally lead to rent increases or
displacement (Walker et al., 2023).

Given both the urgency and complexity of this work, the following sections provide an overview of
existing initiatives and local contextual factors to inform the development of an effective residential
decarbonization program for Vancouver.


Review of Existing Initiatives
The City, the local utilities, County, and state agencies collectively administer a variety of programs
locally that together support residential decarbonization goals. While these efforts provide a strong
foundation, they will need to be expanded and scaled to achieve the City’s ambitious GHG reduction
goals. This section summarizes existing programs and their current limitations, based on
conversations with program staff, to highlight opportunities for City intervention.

City of Vancouver Housing Rehabilitation Program: The City provides affordable home repair
financing for income-eligible homeowners to help preserve existing housing. Participants can receive
up to $35,000 in low-interest (2%) loans with no monthly payments, repaid only when the home is sold,
refinanced, or no longer owner-occupied. Eligible repairs include structural and safety issues,
weatherization, and major systems such as roofing, plumbing, and electrical. The program is funded
through U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Community Development Block
Grant (CDBG) and HOME Investment Partnership.

Additionally, this program received funding from the Washington State Home Electrification and
Appliance Rebates Program (HEAR) to provide rebates and incentives for high-efficiency electric
equipment and appliances in 2024 and 2025. The City partnered with Northwest Native Chamber and
the Hispanic Metropolitan Chamber to deliver these incentives to residents. During the first round of
HEAR funding, the City and its partners received 219 applications and were able to serve 55
households and 4 small businesses. Of these households, 94% had incomes below 80% of area median
income, 45% identified as BIPOC, 30% included residents over age 65, and the average household
health disparity score was 8.4. Among contractors, 43% were BIPOC or women-owned, and all
businesses served were BIPOC-owned.

Limitations:

      •    The Home Rehabilitation Program faces a wait list of approximately 80–100 applicants,
           resulting in wait times of up to two years.
      •    Weatherization projects are often not pursued because urgent structural repairs, such as a roof
           replacement, typically consume the full loan amount.

1
    This estimate was provided by Justin Ventura, City of Vancouver, based on experience from the Home Rehabilitation Program.

CITY OF VANCOUVER | RESIDENTIAL DECARBONIZATION BACKGROUND REPORT | MARCH 5, 2026                                         8
   •    Current participation is heavily concentrated among adults 65 and older of similar
        demographics, indicating the program may not be reaching other important segments of the
        population.
   •    HEAR grant funding is limited to high-efficiency electric equipment purchases and does not
        cover weatherization. For HVAC-related upgrades, this can limit potential impact, since
        measures like insulation and air sealing are ideally completed first to maximize energy savings
        and system performance. By contrast, non-HVAC appliance upgrades (such as refrigerators or
        dishwashers) do not necessarily need to be paired with weatherization to realize their primary
        benefits.
   •    Historically, manufactured home residents have been underserved by the program because
        repairs must be funded through grants rather than loans, as these homes are typically located
        on rented lots. Prevailing wage requirements tied to these grants have significantly increased
        labor costs which limits the amount of work that can be completed with available funding.

City of Vancouver Rental Registry Program: The City launched a rental registration program in
January 2026 that will require landlords to register their units, pay an annual license fee, and
eventually complete regular inspections to ensure basic housing quality and safety. In the future this
program has the potential to make it easier to plan and implement residential decarbonization
upgrades since there will be a citywide record of rental housing conditions.

Limitations:

   •    Because the program is new, the initial phase will focus on getting landlords to register their
        units and other uses of the portal will not be explored until registration is broadly complete.

Clark Public Utilities Residential Rebates and Incentives: Clark Public Utilities, the local electricity
provider, offers a wide range of energy-efficiency rebates because reducing energy use is cheaper
than supplying additional power. These incentives are organized across several groups:

   •    Single Family: Rebates are available to utility customers of all income levels for heat pumps,
        heat pump water heaters, smart thermostats, weatherization upgrades, and window
        replacements.
   •    Multifamily: Pre-approved rebates are available for weatherization improvements and energy-
        efficient equipment.
   •    Low Income: Financial assistance includes bill-support programs such as the federal LIHEAP
        program, senior rate credits, and financial crisis grants, although none of these directly help
        reduce energy use. Low-income energy-efficiency upgrades are supported through the HEAR
        grant program, partnerships with the Clark County Weatherization Program, and funding to
        nonprofit partners such as Habitat for Humanity, with most nonprofit resources directed
        toward multifamily properties.

Limitations

    •   Rebates and incentives on their own may not be sufficient to drive widespread adoption of
        energy efficiency upgrades.
    •   State law prevents CPU from promoting or incentivizing customers to switch from gas
        appliances to electric alternatives. As a result, CPU contributes to emissions reductions
        through energy efficiency and grid decarbonization efforts, but its participation in climate
        strategies that rely on customer fuel switching is limited.



CITY OF VANCOUVER | RESIDENTIAL DECARBONIZATION BACKGROUND REPORT | MARCH 5, 2026                          9
Clark County Weatherization Program: This program provides free weatherization services to
qualified low-income homeowners and renters living in single-family, multi-family, and mobile homes.
Typical improvements may include insulation, air sealing, ventilation upgrades, and limited health
and safety repairs, but do not include major system replacements such as roofing or plumbing as
included in the City’s Home Rehabilitation Program. The program serves roughly 85–100 homes per
year on a first-come, first-served basis and is supported by federal LIHEAP dollars.

Limitations:

   •   The program reaches a small portion of eligible households and primarily serves single-family
       homes with limited ability to expand into multifamily buildings due to funding and eligibility
       constraints.
   •   A “missing middle” exists where households slightly above income limits cannot access
       assistance.
   •   Fuel-switching measures are eligible but are rarely implemented.

Energy Trust of Oregon (ETO): ETO administers energy efficiency and renewable energy programs for
NW Natural customers funded by fees on NW Natural bills. Cash incentives are offered for single and
multifamily properties to support energy-efficient equipment upgrades (see table below).
Additionally, the team provides technical assistance for home energy assessments and a trade ally
network of vetted, qualified contractors to support project installation.

 Eligibility Group                  Process                               Incentives

                                                                         -Heating and cooling (high
                                    Customer pays for upgrades
                                                                         efficiency natural gas furnace, high
 Cash Incentives for                upfront and will be reimbursed by
                                                                         efficiency direct-vent natural gas
 Homeowners- any NW Natural         ETO after work is completed (not
                                                                         fireplace, and smart thermostat)
 customer                           required to use the trade ally
                                                                         -Windows and insulation
                                    network)
                                                                         -Natural gas tankless water heater

                                                                         -High-efficiency gas furnace with
                                    Customers work with contractors in   95% AFUE or greater
 Savings Within Reach Program -
                                    the trade ally network and do not    -Insulation (attic/ceiling, wall, and
 income qualified program
                                    need to pay upfront as               floor)
 (around 65-100% AMI) for single
                                    reimbursements are processed
 family homeowners,
                                    directly through the contractors;
 manufactured homes, or
                                    contractors are trained to help      Note: OR covers heat pumps but
 multifamily residences with less
                                    customers stack available            WA does not due to laws
 than 5 units
                                    incentives                           prohibiting the promotion of fuel
                                                                         switching

                                                                         -Heating and cooling (high
 Cash Incentives for Rental
                                                                         efficiency natural gas furnace, high
 Property Owners - includes
                                    Not sure; assume similar to cash     efficiency direct-vent natural gas
 freestanding structure and
                                    incentives for homeowners            fireplace, and smart thermostat)
 attached multifamily attached
                                                                         -Natural gas tankless water heater
 residences
                                                                         -Windows and insulation


Limitations:

   •   Incentives are only available for NW Natural customers.


CITY OF VANCOUVER | RESIDENTIAL DECARBONIZATION BACKGROUND REPORT | MARCH 5, 2026                            10
   •   Incentives through the Savings Within Reach Program do not cover customers with very high
       need as the rebate amounts are not high enough.
   •   Program staff noted the pipeline between receiving a home energy assessment and being able
       to access services recommended by the assessment is more robust in OR than in WA, based on
       the organizations currently in their network that operate in WA. For instance, the home energy
       assessment CBO partners funded by ETO currently only operate in OR and therefore this is not
       a service provided to SW WA customers. As of Jan 2026, there is one CBO that plans to apply for
       funding through the HOMES/HEAR state program and if they receive funding, they will be
       eligible to perform these assessments in WA starting in Q2 2026.
   •   Rental property owners often do not participate in this program because the incentives are
       insufficient to motivate major upgrades, especially since tenants typically bear utility costs.

Washington State Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) Home Energy Rebates: Two state-run programs aimed
to support homeowners up to 150% of AMI, and multifamily building owners with at least half of their
residents below that income level. Participants will apply online through a state administrator.
Programs include:
       • Whole Home Efficiency Rebates Program (HOME): Program offers rebates up to $20,000 to
          complete whole-home energy efficiency upgrades that achieve at least 20% energy savings.
       • Home Appliance Rebate Program (HARP): Program offers up to $14,000 in rebates for
          households to purchase and install high-efficiency electric appliances and equipment.

   Limitations:

   •   These programs are still in the development phase, and it remains unclear how effectively the
       benefits will reach Vancouver residents. There has also been limited guidance on how the City
       should support outreach once the application portal opens.
   •   Program benefits are generally limited as the IRA rebates are a one-time allocation, and the
       Trump administration eliminated federal tax incentives for energy-efficient home
       improvements in July 2025 (Kempe, 2025).


Local Contextual Factors
To better understand the challenges and opportunities for residential decarbonization in Vancouver,
this section provides an overview of several factors that influence building performance and program
effectiveness, including existing housing stock characteristics, climate vulnerability, workforce
capacity, and policy context.


Housing Stock Characteristics
Housing stock data provides insight into where decarbonization interventions may maximize defined
program goals, including emissions reductions and household-level benefits. Because residential
buildings make up the majority of Vancouver’s building inventory, they are a key target for reducing
building-sector emissions. They also represent a critical area where public investment can deliver the
most direct, immediate, and tangible co-benefits to residents’ daily lives, even though emissions per
square foot are relatively low compared to other building types (Table 1).




CITY OF VANCOUVER | RESIDENTIAL DECARBONIZATION BACKGROUND REPORT | MARCH 5, 2026                  11
Table 1: Summary of Building Stock, Floor Area, and GHG Emissions

                     Buildings                  Square Footage               GHG Emissions
                Number     Percent          Square       Percent         2023      Relative
                                            Footage                      Emissions Emission
                                                                         (MTCO2e) Intensity*
 Residential 53,354           93.4%         111,889,986 62.3%            226,471   1
 Commercial 2,690             4.7%          44,366,622 24.7%             188,006   2.1x
                                                                                   higher
 Industrial     1,075         1.9%           23,259,751    13.0%         131,133   2.8x
                                                                                   higher
 Total          57,119        100%          179,516,359 100%             545,610
Source: City of Vancouver, 2024; Clark County Assessor’s Office, 2025
* Emission intensity (MTCO2e/sq ft) shows that although residential buildings account for the majority of total
GHG emissions in the Buildings and Energy sector (15% of the sector’s 37% contribution), they have the lowest
emissions per square foot.

More than half of all residential buildings are single-family homes, while about 20% are large
multifamily buildings with 20 or more units (Table 2). Mobile homes comprise only about 2.4% of local
housing units but are important to call out given their typically lower energy efficiency which is driven
by limited insulation, aging windows, and older appliances. They are also a critical part of our
affordable housing stock that we aim to preserve.

Table 2: Summary of Occupied Housing Typologies

         Typologies                        Total Units                    Percent of Total Units
 1 unit, detached                            45,209                               50.3%
 1 unit, attached                             6,998                                7.8%
 2-4 units                                    7,711                                8.6%
 5-19 units                                  10,172                               11.3%
 20+ units                                   17,594                               19.6%
 Mobile home                                  2,154                                2.4%
 Boat, RV, van, etc.                           78                                  0.1%
 Total                                       89,916                               100%
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, 2024

Tenure is nearly evenly split between owners and renters with 52.4% owner-occupied and 47.6%
renter-occupied (U.S. Census Bureau, 2024). However, the types of homes they occupy differ. Among
homeowners, 88% live in single-family detached houses. Vancouver also has an older homeowner
population where 51% of homeowners are over age 60, compared to 42% in Clark County. This trend is
influenced by rapidly rising home prices, which have increased 174% over the past decade, reaching
an average of $447,000 in 2023 (Bump et al., 2024).

Renter households are more likely to live in multifamily buildings, with 51% residing in buildings with
five or more units, and 18% in plexes (duplexes, triplexes, and quadplexes). Average household size is
2.26. Rents have risen 60% over the past decade, and there is an average monthly rent of $1,700 in
both Vancouver and Clark County. As a result, in Vancouver, 57% of renters are cost-burdened (paying
more than 30% of income on rent) and 27% are severely cost-burdened (paying more than 50%).
Renters in Vancouver are also three times more likely than homeowners to face housing cost burdens
(Bump et al., 2024).


CITY OF VANCOUVER | RESIDENTIAL DECARBONIZATION BACKGROUND REPORT | MARCH 5, 2026                            12
Vancouver’s housing stock is relatively young. The largest share of buildings was constructed between
1980-1999 (Clark County Assessor’s Office, 2025). Overall, 39% of homes were built between 1980 and
2000, 30% were built after 2000, and 21% were built between 1960 and 1980. Only about 8% were built
before 1960 (Figure 1). However, many homes still require energy-efficiency upgrades. Roughly 30% of
the housing stock was built before 1980, prior to the adoption of the State Energy Code in 1985, and is
therefore more likely to lack adequate insulation, air sealing, or efficient systems. Homes built before
1960 are also less likely to have any cooling or effective air filtration, increasing vulnerability during
extreme heat or wildfire smoke events. Older homes are located across all areas of the City, though
the largest share is in areas 2 (including areas Downtown and along West Fourth Plain Boulevard) and
6 (including east-central Vancouver around I-205 corridor) (Figure 2). However, even newer buildings
will need updates over time as major systems generally require replacement every 25 years.

Figure 1: Building Age (Residential and Non-Residential)




Source: Clark County Assessor’s Office, 2025




CITY OF VANCOUVER | RESIDENTIAL DECARBONIZATION BACKGROUND REPORT | MARCH 5, 2026                     13
Figure 2: Building Age by City Location




Source: Berk Consulting, 2025


Climate Vulnerability
Not all residents are equally affected by climate change. Vulnerability depends on three factors:
exposure, sensitivity, and adaptive capacity. Exposure refers to the presence of hazards such as
extreme heat, flooding, or poor air quality. Sensitivity reflects how much a system or population may
be affected by hazards and depends on factors such as age and pre-existing health conditions.
Adaptive capacity describes the ability of a person, asset, or system to cope or adjust to a hazard,
which is often influenced by housing quality, income, and access to resources (U.S. Climate Resilience
Toolkit, 2021). Buildings themselves can also be vulnerable when their design, condition, or systems
make them more susceptible to climate hazards, which in turn affects the people living in them.

As mentioned above, a recent Community Needs Assessment Survey conducted by Clark County found
low-income residents reported housing and utility assistance within their top five needs, highlighting
the extent to which financial and housing instability reduce adaptive capacity in this area (Clark
County Community Services, 2024). These same constraints also make it harder for these households
to participate in residential decarbonization efforts, even though they are among those who would
benefit most. Recognizing these barriers provides essential context for designing programs that
improve both climate resilience and energy outcomes.

Maps and analysis from the Vancouver Climate Vulnerability Assessment created as part of the Our
Vancouver 2045 Comprehensive Plan update illustrate these patterns and can be used to target
program efforts toward the most vulnerable populations (BERK Consulting, 2025):




CITY OF VANCOUVER | RESIDENTIAL DECARBONIZATION BACKGROUND REPORT | MARCH 5, 2026                  14
Figure 3 - Climate Exposure Index: Highlights
areas at risk from extreme heat, flooding, or
smoke. East Vancouver, including areas near
the Vancouver Mall and along SE Mill Plain
Boulevard, experiences the city’s greatest
heat exposure, driven by low tree canopy (<
20%) and high impervious surface coverage.2
Air quality and smoke exposure are more
pronounced east of NW Fruit Valley Road,
along SR 14, and in southeast Vancouver,
where prevailing winds concentrate wildfire
smoke during regional fire events.




Figure 4 – Climate Exposure and Equity
Index: Combines climate exposure (Figure
3) with equity metrics, including people of
color, low-income households, education
level, renters, limited English proficiency,
older adults, youth, and persons with
disabilities. High-risk areas include
Vancouver Lake and NW Fruit Valley Road,
south of SR 500, along Fourth Plain
Boulevard, and southeast neighborhoods.




2
 For more information on heat, consider reviewing the Clark County heat map which captures temperatures across the county through
a one-day measurement event in July 2024.

CITY OF VANCOUVER | RESIDENTIAL DECARBONIZATION BACKGROUND REPORT | MARCH 5, 2026                                             15
Figure 5 – Climate Exposure and Health
Index: Combines climate exposure (Figure
3) with a health vulnerability index,
including data on health insurance access,
hypertension, asthma, coronary heart
disease, COPD, diabetes, poor mental
health, and poor physical health. Results
are similar to the equity map, with more
sensitive populations concentrated in west
and central Vancouver.




Overall, areas with the highest combined climate, health, and equity vulnerability are concentrated
along the Fourth Plain corridor (Maplewood, Meadow Homes, and Bagley Downs), Fruit Valley, central
Vancouver south of SR-500, and southeast Vancouver (Figure 6).

Figure 6: Map of Climate Impact Priority Areas




CITY OF VANCOUVER | RESIDENTIAL DECARBONIZATION BACKGROUND REPORT | MARCH 5, 2026              16
Green Workforce
A strong workforce is essential to advancing residential decarbonization efforts. At the same time,
these programs inherently generate demand for this work. Therefore, residential decarbonization
programs have the potential to intentionally build and support career pathways for workers and
contractors from underrepresented communities. Just as we aim for program participation to reach
those most harmed by climate change and the health and economic inequities described above, we
also want to ensure the economic and professional benefits of this work reach the same communities.
Program goals should be structured to advance workforce development while ensuring equitable
opportunities for underrepresented workers and contractors.

Within the program design process, it will be important to clearly define the specific aspect of the
workforce we are aiming to advance or address. Preliminary conversations suggest several areas to
explore:

   1.   Skills and Training

        •   Addressing workforce gaps and building skills: While the region has robust training
            programs through traditional trade apprenticeships, registered apprenticeships can
            sometimes present barriers for underrepresented groups, such as women or tribal members.
            Residential decarbonization programs can intentionally support the expansion of skill-
            building opportunities for those historically excluded from trades. A key way to do this is
            through collaborations with community partners who can help ensure that training
            programs and workforce opportunities reach such groups. For example, the NW Native
            Chamber has dedicated initiatives to equip Native and frontline communities with
            knowledge and skills in renewable energy industries.
        •   Inclusive workplace culture: Job site culture trainings, similar to those often required in the
            commercial sector, can be applied to residential work to ensure all workers operate in a
            positive and supportive environment. This can also benefit business owners by helping to
            retain their workforce. Programs like Greendot or RISE Up can be used to facilitate these
            trainings.

        2. Connection to Opportunities

        •   On-the-job experience: Building skills is important, but providing access to paid work
            opportunities is equally critical. Program design can incorporate requirements to ensure
            underrepresented workers gain practical experience. For example, the City partnered with
            the NW Native Chamber and the Hispanic Metropolitan Chamber to administer the HEAR
            grant, reaching a workforce in which 43% of contractors were BIPOC or women-owned.
        •   Partnering with workforce organizations: Workforce Southwest Washington, which focuses
            on placing people into quality jobs, has a growing clean energy focus that aligns with
            building decarbonization and retrofitting efforts. The city could consider a partnership with
            this organization to train and place residents in residential decarbonization projects.
        •   Leveraging contractor networks: CPU and ETO maintain networks of vetted contractors.
            However, conversations with ETO suggest local coverage in Southwest Washington is
            limited. The skills building opportunities above can support expansion of these contractor
            networks to ensure residents in Southwest Washington have access to high-quality services,
            while also connecting trained workers and underrepresented contractors to projects in their
            own communities.

CITY OF VANCOUVER | RESIDENTIAL DECARBONIZATION BACKGROUND REPORT | MARCH 5, 2026                      17
Additionally, we will need to define the role the City can play in advancing the workforce priorities
identified. While the City may not directly administer worker training, it can serve as a convener and
connector. For example, the City can convene community-based organizations, labor partners, and
contractor networks to align workforce efforts with projected residential decarbonization demand
and identify gaps in access or representation. The City can also leverage its procurement process to
embed equity-focused workforce standards into program implementation. This could include
establishing goals or evaluation criteria that prioritize historically underrepresented contractors,
requiring inclusive job site culture training, or incentivizing mentorship and on-the-job training
components within funded projects. In addition, the City can reduce participation barriers by
supporting technical assistance for these groups to respond to program solicitations such as hosting
information sessions or partnering with community partners to provide proposal development
support.


Policy Landscape
Washington has made meaningful progress on building decarbonization, but significant gaps remain
for existing residential buildings. The Washington 2021 State Energy Strategy provides a road map for
the state’s clean energy transition and highlights building decarbonization as not only an essential
part of meeting the state’s GHG emission limits and climate goals, but also the opportunity for
decarbonization actions to address inequities through enhancing resilience, growing the clean energy
workforce, and improving health outcomes. Existing state policy primarily targets large commercial
and multifamily properties through the Clean Buildings Performance Standard, which requires energy-
efficiency upgrades for buildings above specific size thresholds. New development is addressed
through the Washington State Energy Code and, locally, Vancouver’s forthcoming Green Building
Policy will strengthen standards for new construction. However, no comparable policy framework
exists for existing single-family homes or smaller residential buildings. As a result, upgrades are
entirely voluntary and depend on individual home or property owner choices and financial capacity.

Additionally, state incentive programs that support residential decarbonization can vary in availability
depending on funding cycles. Some programs are short-term or time-limited and may not always be
accompanied by robust outreach to cities which makes it difficult to assess how effectively they are
reaching local households.


Recommended Areas for City Action
Based on the findings of this report, the following are preliminary opportunities where City
intervention may be considered in the next phase of program design. These recommendations will
continue to be revised and refined as the team undertakes a detailed review of program models and
lessons from other cities as well as engages the community to learn about their needs.

   1. Explore opportunities to scale or complement existing weatherization and electrification
      programs

Existing weatherization and electrification programs are primarily funded through federal or state
grants, which have finite resources and specifications on eligible households and allowable services.
As a result, these programs are not able to meet the scale or breadth of need across Vancouver’s
housing stock. For example, both the City’s Housing Rehabilitation Program and the County’s
Weatherization Program currently have waitlists. Further, many older homes, particularly those built
before 1980, prior to major energy code updates, require insulation and building envelope
improvements that the Home Rehabilitation program often cannot address due to competing repair
CITY OF VANCOUVER | RESIDENTIAL DECARBONIZATION BACKGROUND REPORT | MARCH 5, 2026                   18
needs and funding shortfalls. There are also opportunities to expand access to high-efficiency electric
equipment and appliances by building on the existing HEAR grant program, which currently has a
waitlist, and by increasing utilization of CPU and ETO rebates. These rebates may be underutilized
due to limited awareness of available programs or because the incentive amounts are not large
enough to motivate participation.

Given these dynamics, the City should weigh the benefits and tradeoffs of scaling existing programs,
which have established infrastructure and expertise but stricter eligibility and funding constraints,
versus developing a complementary local program that operates with greater flexibility while
connecting residents to these existing services.

   2. Support whole-home, sequenced retrofits

Program design should prioritize comprehensive, whole-home retrofits rather than isolated upgrades
to achieve maximum benefits for residents and the climate. For example, the current HEAR program
funds high-efficiency electric appliances but does not cover insulation or air sealing prior to
installation. This can limit the effectiveness of HVAC upgrades which deliver maximum energy savings
and resident benefits, such as reduced utility bills, when paired with weatherization measures.
Conversely, certain appliances, like water heaters or dishwashers, can deliver full benefits without
additional interventions. Programs should therefore consider both the appropriate sequencing and
combination of upgrades.

A comprehensive retrofit package may also include resident education to ensure households can use
new systems effectively and adopt energy-saving behaviors (e.g., turning off lights) to fully realize
program benefits. Finally, depending on program goals, whole-home retrofits may prioritize cooling
measures to enhance resilience during extreme heat while also incorporating efficiency upgrades to
minimize overall energy demand.

   3. Lead on residential electrification
The City is in a unique position to incentivize high-efficiency electric systems given that CPU is legally
restricted from supporting these upgrades and other programs have not focused on this area. This is
especially important as roughly 31% of all residential buildings in Vancouver rely on natural gas (U.S.
Census Bureau, 2024), and electrification offers some of the largest emissions-reduction potential.

   4. Create dedicated pathways for renters and multifamily buildings
With nearly half of Vancouver residents living in rental housing and 18% residing in plexes (duplexes,
triplexes, and quadplexes), decarbonization efforts must intentionally include programs tailored to
these groups. This recommendation focuses on smaller existing multifamily buildings that will not be
legally required to comply with Washington’s Clean Buildings Performance Standard which is aimed
at buildings over 20,000 square feet. Targeting these buildings offers an opportunity to maximize
impact as investments in these units may stretch public dollars further.

However, since 57% of renters are cost-burdened in Vancouver, programs must protect tenants from
added financial strain or displacement by prioritizing strong tenant protections (such as drawing from
the Anti-Displacement Strategy designed for Central Vancouver) and ensure benefits flow to residents.
At the same time, programs should address split incentives by creating appealing opportunities for
property owners—such as financial incentives for upgrades or integrating improvements into
affordable housing programs—so that investments support vulnerable populations while encouraging
broad participation. Over the longer term, the City could also explore linking the Rental Registry to
basic energy performance or upgrade requirements. Finally, since renters have limited ability to make


CITY OF VANCOUVER | RESIDENTIAL DECARBONIZATION BACKGROUND REPORT | MARCH 5, 2026                      19
building-level improvements themselves, complementary resident education can help maximize
benefits while empowering households to participate meaningfully in climate action.

   5. Improve coordination, navigation, and information sharing across programs
To make existing programs more accessible and effective, the City should centralize program
information, such as through a one-stop resource center, and conduct targeted dissemination to
groups that may not have previously received information. Current programs report challenges in
reaching segments of the population outside existing City networks.

Depending on the mix of existing and upcoming programs, the City could also play a more active role
in coordinating or referring participants to appropriate pathways to ensure interventions are
completed in the most effective sequence and all existing incentives (from CPU, city, state, and
federal programs) are fully utilized. This coordination could also include connecting participants to
workforce opportunities.

Achieving this role will require intentional partnerships with community-based organizations and
trusted community messengers, along with new models of funded collaboration. These partnerships
should be built into program design from the outset and prioritize co-creation with communities to
reach residents where they are.

   6. Ensure Programs Serve Residents with the Greatest Climate and Social Vulnerabilities
While any program expansion or creation will benefit all Vancouver residents by reducing greenhouse
gas emissions and improving air quality, programs should intentionally center residents who
experience combined risks from climate impacts, social inequities, and health vulnerabilities, as
highlighted in the maps above. These maps can help identify the target populations such as areas
with poor air quality or high heat exposure. Additional populations to consider include low-income
households with high energy burdens, residents of manufactured homes, and the near-eligible
households who exceed income limits for federal and state programs. Determining the program focus
will require combining data from this report with program goals and community input to identify
where interventions can have the greatest impact while advancing equity .


Next Steps
Building on the findings from this report, the next phase will involve reviewing successful program
designs from other cities to identify approaches that best fit Vancouver’s context. In parallel, the team
will evaluate climate funding options to support implementation. Input from City staff, local
organizations, and community members will be incorporated to ensure the program is well-aligned
with local needs. These insights, along with a recommended funding source, will be compiled into a
final proposal for City leadership to consider a pilot program.




CITY OF VANCOUVER | RESIDENTIAL DECARBONIZATION BACKGROUND REPORT | MARCH 5, 2026                     20
Citations
ASHRAE. (n.d.). Building Decarb 101. ASHRAE. Retrieved https://www.ashrae.org/about/cebd-building-decarb-
101

BERK Consulting. (2025). Climate Vulnerability Assessment (Our Vancouver Our Future 2045) [Unpublished].

Bump, T., Wilkerson, M., Cannon, J., La Bonte, K., Sherrill, J., Visser, M., & Ditter, J. (2024). Housing Needs
Assessment: City of Vancouver Comprehensive Plan Update. ECOnorthwest.
https://beheardvancouver.civilspace.io/en/projects/project-timeline#phase-1

Cho, R. (2022, April 22). What Is Decarbonization, and How Do We Make It Happen? State of the Planet.
https://news.climate.columbia.edu/2022/04/22/what-is-decarbonization-and-how-do-we-make-it-happen/

City of Vancouver. (2022). City of Vancouver Climate Action Framework. https://www.cityofvancouver.us/wp-
content/uploads/2023/08/vancouvercaf_final_121422.pdf

City of Vancouver Climate Program. (2024). City of Vancouver 2023 Inventory of Community and Government
Operations Greenhouse Gas Emissions. https://www.cityofvancouver.us/wp-
content/uploads/2024/09/Attachment-A-2023-GHG-Inventory_VancouverWA_Community-and-Government.pdf

Clark County Assessor’s Office. (2025). Taxlots 2 Public Use [Dataset]. Clark County GIS. https://city-of-
vancouver-wa-geo-hub-cityofvancouver.hub.arcgis.com/datasets/CityOfVancouver::taxlots-2-public-use/about

Clark County Community Services. (2024). Clark County Community Needs Assessment Report.
https://clark.wa.gov/sites/default/files/media/document/2025-01/cna-2024_english.pdf

Clark Public Utilities. (n.d.). Home Energy Assistance Program. Clark Public Utilities. Retrieved February 3, 2026,
from https://www.clarkpublicutilities.com/residential-customers/financial-assistance/all-financial-assistance-
programs/home-energy-assistance-program/

Clark Public Utilities. (2024). Owner’s Manual: A guide to your customer-owned utility.
https://www.clarkpublicutilities.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/03/2024-Owners-manual_web.pdf

Han, S., Hu, M., Gao, X., Huang, Y., Guo, F., Shen, G. C., Wang, D., Lin, S., & Zhang, K. (2024). Energy burden and
mental health: A national study in the United States. Science of The Total Environment, 955, 176796.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.176796

Kempe, Y. (2025, July 14). A cheat sheet to clean-energy tax credit changes under Trump’s new law. Canary Media.
https://www.canarymedia.com/articles/clean-energy/tax-credit-changes-trump-law

Michael Chang, Erikson, L., Araujo, K., Asinas, E. N., Chisholm Hatfield, S., Crozier, L., Fleishman, E., & Greene, C.
(2023). Ch. 27. Northwest (Fifth National Climate Assessment). U.S. Global Change Research Program.
https://cig.uw.edu/wp-content/uploads/sites/2/2025/09/NCA5_Ch27_Northwest.pdf

NW Natural. (2021). Vision 2050: Destination Zero—NW Natural Carbon Neutrality Scenario Analysis.
https://www.nwnatural.com/about-us/the-company/carbon-neutral-future

Pelai, R., & Moore, E. (2025, September 2). How Cascadia Can Maintain Its Heat Pump Momentum. Sightline
Institute. https://www.sightline.org/2025/09/02/how-cascadia-can-maintain-its-heat-pump-momentum/

CITY OF VANCOUVER | RESIDENTIAL DECARBONIZATION BACKGROUND REPORT | MARCH 5, 2026                                 21
Rubin, K., Freed, M., & Aggarwal, A. (2023, December 18). 1 in 7 Families Live in Energy Poverty. States Can Ease
That Burden. RMI. https://rmi.org/1-in-7-families-live-in-energy-poverty-states-can-ease-that-burden/

Samayoa, M. (2026, January 6). NW Natural seeks to shift cost of failed RNG investment to customers. Oregon
Public Broadcasting. https://www.opb.org/article/2026/01/06/nw-natural-renewable-gas-tyson-foods-rng-
oregon/

Seals, B. (2020, May 5). Indoor Air Pollution: The Link between Climate and Health. RMI. https://rmi.org/indoor-air-
pollution-the-link-between-climate-and-health/

U.S. Census Bureau. (2024). American Community Survey (Version ACS 1-Year Estimates Data Profiles) [Dataset].
https://api.census.gov/data/2024/acs/acs1/profile

U.S. Climate Resilience Toolkit. (2021). Glossary. https://toolkit.climate.gov/glossary

Vogel, J., Hess, J., Kearl, K., Naismith, K., Bumbaco, B. G., & Henning, R. (2023). In The Hot Seat: Saving Lives From
Extreme Heat in Washington State. https://cig.uw.edu/wp-content/uploads/sites/2/2023/06/CIG-Report-Heat-
202-pages.pdf

Walker, I., Casquero-Modrego, N., & Less, B. (2023). Challenges and Opportunities for Home Decarbonization.
Berkeley Lab. https://buildingdecarb.org/wp-content/uploads/home_decarbonization_8.14.23.pdf

Washington State Department of Commerce. (2024, April 15). Clean Energy Transformation Act (CETA).
https://www.commerce.wa.gov/energy-policy/electricity-policy/ceta/

Washington State Department of Ecology. (2023). Improving Air Quality in Overburdened Communities Highly
Impacted by Air Pollution. https://apps.ecology.wa.gov/publications/documents/2302115.pdf

World Health Organization. (2018). Low indoor temperatures and insulation. In WHO Housing and Health
Guidelines. World Health Organization. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK535294/




CITY OF VANCOUVER | RESIDENTIAL DECARBONIZATION BACKGROUND REPORT | MARCH 5, 2026                                 22
City Hall | 415 W. 6th St. | Vancouver, WA 98660 | cityofvancouver.us


CITY OF VANCOUVER | RESIDENTIAL DECARBONIZATION BACKGROUND REPORT | MARCH 5, 2026   23
