10/12/2026 (Date of First Reading)
10/19/2026 (Date of Public Hearing)




                 ORDINANCE NO. M- [Ordinance Number]
                AN ORDINANCE of the City of Vancouver relating to changes to the City’s

Multi-Family Housing Tax Exemption Program (MFTE) as mandated by Washington State

Legislature House Bills 1491 and 1494; amending Vancouver Municipal Code Chapter

3.22 to add a 20-year exemption option for transit-oriented station areas, additional

definitions, clarifying code language and; providing for severability; and setting an

immediate effective date.



       WHEREAS, Washington State law RCW 84.14 authorizes cities to adopt an MFTE

program in certain residential target areas for the purpose of incentivizing the

development of multiple-unit housing including creating additional affordable housing,

encouraging urban development and density, increasing market rate workforce housing,

developing permanently affordable housing opportunities, promoting economic

investment and recovery, and creating family-wage jobs, and



       WHEREAS, the City of Vancouver adopted a Multi-Family Housing Tax Exemption

(MFTE) program in 1997 through ordinance M-3313, most recently updated in 2025

through RES M-4343, and




ORDINANCE - 1
      WHEREAS, The Washington State legislature passed HB 1491 related to

supporting transit-oriented development requiring cities to:

   1. Offer a new 20-year MFTE certificate option within bus rapid transit station areas

   2. Require a 50-year affordability term

   3. Administratively approve applications meeting the approval criteria

   4. Provide an automatic 50% reduction to Traffic impact fees

   5. Require restrictive deed covenant to be recorded against the property



      WHEREAS, The Washington State legislature also passed HB 1494 adding the

following policy level clean-up amendments for MFTE programs:

   1. A recorded deed restriction or covenant is now required for affordable

      homeownership units in 12-year exemption projects.

   2. If one owner in a multi-unit MFTE ownership project is deemed non-compliant,

      then only that non-compliant owner will lose the exemption status. The MFTE

      exemption will not be cancelled for the remaining compliant owners.

   3. Notice is required to be provided to affected taxing districts when adding new

      residential target areas or changing MFTE program requirements.

   4. Cities are required to determine if newly proposed Residential Target Areas are

      compliant with anti-displacement requirements in RCW 36.70A.070(2).

   5. MFTE tenants are allowed to stay in their units at lease renewal if their household

      income has increased since initial eligibility up to 150% of AMI.




ORDINANCE - 2
       WHEREAS, the City Council adopts and incorporates by reference Staff Report SR

___ and finds that the adoption of the updates to the MFTE program set forth in this

Ordinance will promote the general welfare and convenience of the people of

Vancouver, and will encourage the development of affordable multi-family housing in

the City; and

       WHEREAS, with notice provided to the public, the Vancouver City Council

conducted a first reading of the proposed ordinance on October 5, 2026, and a public

hearing concerning the ordinance and proposed code changes on October 12, 2026.

       NOW, THEREFORE,

       BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF VANCOUVER:

       Section 1.        Recitals Adopted as Findings. The City Council hereby adopts and

incorporates by reference the above recitals as findings in support of this Ordinance.

       Section 2.        Amendment. Vancouver Municipal Code Section 3.22. as codified by

Ordinance Ord. M-3314 is hereby amended as follows:



                                       Chapter 3.22
                    MULTIFAMILY HOUSING TAX EXEMPTION

Sections:
  3.22.010      Purpose.
  3.22.020      Definitions.
  3.22.030      Residential target area designation and standards.
  3.22.040      Tax exemptions for multifamily housing in residential target areas.
  3.22.050      Tax exemptions for multifamily housing in transit-oriented development
                areas.
  3.22.060      MFTE program procedures.


ORDINANCE - 3
3.22.010         Purpose.

The purpose of this chapter is to encourage new private multi-housing development and
redevelopment within designated urban centers to accommodate future population growth,
provide places to live close to employment, shopping, entertainment, and transit services and
encourage affordable housing where appropriate. (Ord. M-4416 § 3, 2023; Ord. M-3987 § 1, 2011; Ord.
M-3314, 1997)


3.22.020         Definitions.

“Annual income” means gross annual income adjusted for household size and calculated based
on verifiable income documentation provided by the housing applicant/tenant.

”Station area” means all lots that are (a) Fully within an urban growth area; and fully or partially
within one-quarter mile walking distance of a stop on a fixed route bus system that is
designated as a bus rapid transit stop in the transit development plan as required in RCW
35.58.2795, for which an environmental determination has been issued as required under
chapter 43.21C RCW, and that features fixed transit assets that indicate permanent, high
capacity service including, but not limited to, elevated platforms or enhanced stations, off-
board fare collection, dedicated lanes, busways, or transit signal priority.

“Director” means the director of the city’s economic prosperity and housing department or
authorized designee.

“Growth Management Act” means Chapter 36.70A RCW.

“Household” means a single person, family or unrelated persons living together.

“Income-based housing” means residential housing that is rented by a person or household
whose monthly housing costs, including utilities other than telephone and any mandatory
recurring fees required as a condition of tenancy for the unit, do not exceed 30 percent of the
household’s monthly income. For the purposes of homeownership, the income limits are listed
in VMC 3.22.040(D)(9), Options Under the Program.

“Market-rate exemption option” means an eight-year property tax exemption with no income or
rent requirements.


ORDINANCE - 4
“Median family income” means the median income calculated annually by the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development for the Portland-Vancouver-Hillsboro
metropolitan statistical area. Median family income is adjusted based on household size.

“Multifamily housing” means building(s) having four or more dwelling units designed for
permanent residential occupancy resulting from new construction or rehabilitation or
conversion of vacant, underutilized, or substandard buildings.

“Owner” means the property owner of record.

“Permanent residential occupancy” means multifamily housing that provides either rental or
owner occupancy for a period of at least one month. This excludes hotels and motels that
predominately offer rental accommodation on a daily or weekly basis.

“Primary residence” means a residence occupied for more than six months each calendar year.

“Rehabilitation improvements” means modifications to existing structures that are vacant for 12
months or longer, or modification to existing occupied structures which convert nonresidential
space to residential space and/or increase the number of multifamily housing units.

“Residential target area” means an area within an urban center that has been designated by the
city council as lacking sufficient, available, desirable, and convenient residential housing to
meet the needs of the public.

“Urban center” means a compact, identifiable district containing several business
establishments, adequate public facilities, and a mixture of uses and activities, where residents
may obtain a variety of products and services.

"Workforce housing" means rental housing with monthly costs that do not exceed 30 percent of
the monthly income of a household whose income is at or below 80 percent of the median
household income adjusted for household size, for the county where the household is located,
as reported by the United States department of housing and urban development.

(Ord. M-4474 § 2, 2024; Ord. M-4420 § 2, 2023; Ord. M-4416 § 4, 2023; Ord. M-4332 § 2, 2021; Ord. M-4186 § 1,
2016; Ord. M-3987 § 1, 2011; Ord. M-3314, 1997)




ORDINANCE - 5
3.22.030         Residential target area designation and standards.

A. Criteria. Following a public hearing, the city council may, in its sole discretion, designate one
or more residential target areas. Each designated target area must meet the following criteria,
as determined by the city council:

    1. The target area is located within an urban center;

    2. The target area lacks sufficient available, desirable, affordable, and convenient
    residential housing to meet the needs of the public who would likely live in the urban
    center if desirable, affordable, attractive, and livable places were available; and

    3. The providing of additional housing opportunities in the target area will assist in
    achieving the following purposes:

         a. Encourage increased residential opportunities within the target area, including
         income-based housing opportunities; or

         b. Stimulate the construction of new multifamily housing and/or the rehabilitation of
         existing vacant and underutilized buildings for multifamily housing; or

         c. Where appropriate, stimulate the construction, rehabilitation or conversion of
         existing vacant and underutilized multifamily rental units to owner-occupied
         multifamily housing as such property redevelops.

    4. In designating a residential target area, the city council may also consider other factors,
    including, but not limited to: whether additional housing in the target area will attract and
    maintain an increase in the number of permanent residents; whether an increased
    residential population will help alleviate detrimental conditions in the target area; and
    whether an increased residential population in the target area will help to achieve the
    planning goals mandated by the Growth Management Act under RCW 36.70A.020. The city
    council may, by ordinance, amend or rescind the designation of a residential target area at
    any time pursuant to the same procedure as set forth in this chapter for original
    designation.

    5. When designating a residential target area, the city council shall give notice of a hearing
    to be held on the matter and that notice shall be published once each week for two

ORDINANCE - 6
    consecutive weeks, not less than seven days nor more than 30 days before the date of the
    hearing. The notice must state the time, date, place, and purpose of the hearing and
    generally identify the area proposed to be designated. The notice must be provided to all
    impacted taxing districts.

    6. When designating a residential target area, the city council shall determine that any new
    Residential Target Areas are compliant with anti-displacement requirements in RCW
    36.70A.070(2).

B. Target Area Standards and Guidelines. For each designated residential target area, the city
council shall adopt basic requirements for both new construction and rehabilitation, including
the application process and procedures. The city council may also adopt guidelines which
include parking, height, density, environmental impact, home ownership, public benefit
features, compatibility with the surrounding property and such other amenities as will attract
and keep permanent residents and will properly enhance the livability of the residential target
area. The required amenities shall be relative to the size of the proposed project and the tax
benefit to be obtained.

C. Designated Target Areas. The following “residential target areas” are designated in the city of
Vancouver:

    1. The Vancouver Waterfront Target Area depicted on Map 1 below. Projects in this target
    area must meet the zoning requirements of the underlying zoning district as well as the
    market rate or income-based requirements under VMC 3.22.040:




ORDINANCE - 7
                Map 1: Vancouver Waterfront Target Area




ORDINANCE - 8
   2. The Vancouver City Center Target Area depicted on Map 2 below. Projects in this target
   area must meet the zoning requirements of the underlying zoning district as well as the
   market rate or income-based requirements under VMC 3.22.040:

                          Map 2: Vancouver City Center Target Area




ORDINANCE - 9
   3. East Vancouver Target Area depicted on Map 3 below. Projects in this target area must
   meet the zoning requirements of the underlying zoning district of the market rate or
   income-based requirements under VMC 3.22.040:

                              Map 3: East Vancouver Target Area




ORDINANCE - 10
   4. The Uptown Target Area depicted on Map 4 below. Projects in this target area must
   meet the zoning requirements of the underlying zoning district as well as the market rate
   or income-based requirements under VMC 3.22.040:

                                  Map 4: Uptown Target Area




ORDINANCE - 11
   5. The Evergreen/Grand Target Area depicted on Map 5 below. Projects in this target area
   must meet the zoning requirements of the underlying zoning district as well as the market
   rate or income-based requirements under VMC 3.22.040:

                            Map 5: Evergreen/Grand Target Area




ORDINANCE - 12
   6. Fourth Plain Target Area depicted on Map 6 below. Projects in this target area must
   meet the zoning requirements of the underlying zoning district of the market rate or
   income-based requirements under VMC 3.22.040:

                               Map 6: Fourth Plain Target Area




ORDINANCE - 13
   7. Mill Plain Target Area depicted on Map 7 below. Projects in this target area must meet
   the zoning requirements of the underlying zoning district of the market rate or income-
   based requirements under VMC 3.22.040:

                                 Map 7: Mill Plain Target Area




ORDINANCE - 14
   8. The Upper Main Street Target Area depicted on Map 8 below. Projects in this target area
   must meet the zoning requirements of the underlying zoning district as well as the market
   rate or income-based requirements under VMC 3.22.040:

                            Map 8: Upper Main Street Target Area




ORDINANCE - 15
   9. The Heights Target Area depicted on Map 9 below. Projects in this target area must
   meet the zoning requirements of the underlying zoning district as well as the income-based
   requirements under VMC 3.22.040:

                               Map 9: The Heights Target Area




ORDINANCE - 16
D. Residential Target Area Map Boundary Interpretation. Target area boundary lines are intended
to follow property lot lines or be parallel or perpendicular thereto, or along the centerline of
alleys, streets, rights-of-way or watercourses. Where, due to the scale, lack of detail or illegibility
of the target area maps, there is uncertainty, contradiction or conflict as to the intended
location of any target area boundary as shown thereon, the director shall provide an
interpretation of said map upon request. (Ord. M-4495 § 2, 2025; Ord. M-4474 § 2, 2024; Ord. M-4420
§ 3, 2023; Ord. M-4416 § 4, 2023; Ord. M-4332 § 3, 2021; Ord. M-3990 § 1, 2011; Ord. M-3345, 1998; Ord. M-
3314, 1997)




3.22.040          Tax exemptions for multifamily housing in residential
                  target areas.

A. Intent. Limited exemptions from ad valorem property taxation for multifamily housing in
urban centers are intended to:

    1. Encourage increased residential opportunities within urban centers designated by the
    city council as residential target areas;

    2. Stimulate new construction or rehabilitation of existing vacant and underutilized
    buildings for multifamily housing in residential target areas to increase and improve
    housing opportunities;

    3. Assist in directing future population growth to designated urban center target areas
    and thereby reducing development pressure on single-family residential neighborhoods;

    4. Achieve development densities which are more conducive to transit use in designated
    urban centers;

    5. Encourage new construction or rehabilitation of owner-occupied multifamily housing
    where identified as desirable; and

    6. Encourage income-based housing opportunities.

B. Duration of Exemption. The value of residential improvements qualifying under this chapter
will be exempt from ad valorem property taxation for:



ORDINANCE - 17
    1. Eight successive years where all applicable criteria herein are met under subsection
    (D)(9)(a) of this section; or

    2. Twelve successive years if all applicable criteria herein are met under subsection
    (D)(9)(b) or (c) of this section. In all cases the duration of exemption shall be measured
    beginning January 1st of the year immediately following the calendar year after issuance of
    the final certificate of tax exemption.

C. Limits on Exemption. The exemption does not apply to the value of land or the value of
improvements not qualifying under this chapter, nor does the exemption apply to increases in
assessed valuation of land and nonqualifying improvements. In the case of rehabilitation of
existing buildings, the exemption does not include the value of improvements constructed prior
to submission of the completed application required under this chapter. The exemption does
not apply during the construction phase of the project prior to issuance of the final MFTE
certificate.

D. Project Eligibility. A proposed project must meet the following requirements for
consideration for a property tax exemption:

    1. Location. The project must be located within a residential target area, as designated in
    VMC 3.22.030.

    2. Application Date. A complete MFTE application must be received prior to receiving a
    construction occupancy permit.

    3. Tenant Displacement Prohibited. Property proposed to be rehabilitated must be vacant at
    least 12 months before submitting an application and fail to comply with one or more
    standards of the applicable state or local building or housing codes on or after July 23,
    1995.

    4. Size. The project must include at least four units of multifamily housing within a
    residential structure or as part of a mixed-use development. A minimum of four new units
    must be constructed or at least four additional multifamily units must be added to existing
    occupied multifamily housing. Existing multifamily housing that has been vacant for 12
    months or more does not have to provide additional units so long as the project provides
    at least four units of new, converted, or rehabilitated multifamily housing.


ORDINANCE - 18
   5. Permanent Residential Housing. At least 50 percent of the space designated for
   multifamily housing must be provided for permanent residential occupancy, as defined in
   VMC 3.22.020.

   6. Proposed Completion Date. New construction multifamily housing and rehabilitation
   improvements must be scheduled to be completed within three years from the date of city
   council approval of the conditional certificate.

   7. Compliance with Guidelines and Standards. The project must be designed to comply with
   the city’s comprehensive plan, building, housing, and zoning codes, and any other
   applicable regulations in effect at the time the application is approved. Rehabilitation and
   conversion improvements must comply with all applicable housing codes. New
   construction must comply with the International Building Code. The project must also
   comply with any other standards and guidelines adopted by the city council for the
   residential target area in which the project will be developed as defined in Table 1 below.

   8. Owner Occupancy. Projects within a residential target area that are developed for owner
   occupancy shall include a deed restriction or covenant acceptable to the director ensuring
   that some or all of the units within the project are used for purposes of owner occupancy.
   Each MFTE unit shall be occupied by the owner as their primary residence.

   9. Residential Target Area Options Under the Program. To be eligible for the MFTE tax
   exemption program option under this chapter, the applicant must either commit to
   providing income-based housing in exchange for a 12-year tax exemption, or, alternatively,
   must pay an affordable housing fee in lieu of providing income-based housing (“affordable
   housing fee”) and meet certain density requirements in exchange for receiving an eight-
   year market rate tax exemption. The criteria for these options are set forth below:

   a. The market-rate exemption option is an eight-year exemption that is contingent upon
      payment of an affordable housing fee in lieu of providing income-based housing as a
      part of the project (“affordable housing fee”). The affordable housing fee is determined
      by the specific target area and density as set forth in Table 1. Depending upon the target
      area and the density of the project, the affordable housing fee shall be either 25 percent
      or 50 percent of the net present value of the property tax exemption over the life of the




ORDINANCE - 19
      exemption. Affordable housing fees paid pursuant to this subsection shall be held in a
      separate fund and used to develop affordable housing in the city.

       The affordable housing fee in lieu shall be paid by one of the following options:

           i. Standard – Prior to the issuance of the multifamily tax exemption final
           certificate.

           ii. Deferred – Prior to the end of the sixth year of the tax exemption period. The
           deferred payment option requires a fee equal to 10 percent of the affordable
           housing fee in lieu. The deferral fee is due at the end of the sixth year of the
           exemption. Deferral of the affordable housing fee requires a surety in the form of
           a lien to be recorded with the Clark County auditor’s office prior to issuance of the
           conditional tax exemption certificate. Projects receiving a deferral of the affordable
           housing fee must receive approved building permits for all exempted buildings
           within one year of the MFTE conditional certificate issuance. If all building permits
           are not approved within one year the project will only be eligible for the standard
           fee payment option.

       b. The ownership option units will not be subject to the affordable housing fee.
       Ownership option projects must record a deed restriction or covenant with the Clark
       County Auditor that specifies the tax exemption requirements. Starting from the date
       of the conditional certificate of tax exemption approval and throughout the exemption
       period, the MFTE ownership units shall not sell for more than two times the United
       States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) HOME homeownership
       value limit for newly constructed housing in Clark County, which is updated annually by
       HUD. Owners may contact the director at any time to confirm current resale price
       limits. The owner shall provide the director written notice of property sale 30 days in
       advance of recording the new deed with the Clark County Auditor. Exceeding the resale
       price limit shall constitute noncompliance and will initiate the cancellation of the
       exemption under VMC 3.22.060 and subject the owner to the effect of cancellation.
       The required number of ownership units for each target area is set forth below in
       Table 1.




ORDINANCE - 20
       c. The income-based option is a 12-year tax exemption under which applicants must
       commit to renting at least 20 percent of the total development units as income-based
       housing to households with annual incomes at or below 80 percent of area median
       income. If the total number of MFTE units calculated contains a fraction, then the
       number of MFTE units shall be rounded up to the next whole number. The ratio of
       MFTE unit types (bedrooms) shall be equal to the unit type ratio for the entire
       development. The property owner must provide information regarding tenant
       outreach regarding the availability of designated income-based units when advertising
       the property.

       Table 1 below summarizes the options and corresponding requirements for market
       rate projects in each residential target area. To encourage production of larger family-
       size units, for the purposes of calculating the development density required to reduce
       the affordable housing fee in lieu percentage, three-bedroom units will count as one
       and one-half units and four or more bedroom units will count as two units.

                                           Table 1.


                                                       Option 2
                              Option 1
                                                  Market Rate With
                                                                               Option 3
  Residential Target      Market Rate With              Density
         Area                                   Requirements and/or           Ownership
                         Affordable Housing
                                 Fee             Affordable Housing
                                                          Fee


      Downtown                   50%                  275 dwelling          No Affordable
      Waterfront                                       units/acre        Housing Fee In Lieu;

                                                  + 25% Affordable       Minimum of 12 units
                                                 Housing Fee In Lieu           required


    Vancouver City               50%                  225 dwelling
        Center                                         units/acre



ORDINANCE - 21
                                                   Option 2
                             Option 1
                                               Market Rate With
  Residential Target                                                     Option 3
                         Market Rate With           Density
         Area            Affordable Housing   Requirements and/or       Ownership
                                Fee           Affordable Housing
                                                      Fee


                                               + 25% Affordable
                                              Housing Fee In Lieu


    East Vancouver              50%              200 dwelling
                                                   units/acre

                                               + 25% Affordable
                                              Housing Fee In Lieu


       Uptown                   25%              160 dwelling
                                                   units/acre


   Evergreen/Grand              25%               90 dwelling          No Affordable
                                                   units/acre       Housing Fee In Lieu;

                                                                    Minimum of 4 units
 Fourth Plain Corridor          25%               90 dwelling
                                                                         required
                                                   units/acre


  Mill Plain Corridor           25%               90 dwelling
                                                   units/acre


  Upper Main Street             25%               90 dwelling
       Corridor                                    units/acre




ORDINANCE - 22
3.22.050         Tax exemptions for multifamily housing in transit-oriented
                 development areas.
A. Applicability. RCW 36.70A.840 requires a 20-year MFTE exemption option within transit-
   oriented development “station areas”, which are designated separately from the MFTE
   residential targeted areas defined in VMC 3.22.030. A map of the applicable station area
   locations is provided in VMC Figure 20.530.020-1. Station area boundaries include parcels
   fully or partially within one-quarter mile walking distance of a station area. In circumstances
   where interpretation of eligible parcels is required due to uncertainty, contradiction, or
   conflict on the station area boundary map, the director shall provide an interpretation of
   eligible station area parcels upon request.

B. Affordability. MFTE projects constructed within a station area must, by recorded covenant,
   agree to at least one of the following affordability and income eligibility options for fifty
   years:

   1. At least 10 percent of all units are restricted to households earning at or below to 60%
      AMI; or

   2. At least 10% of units are restricted to households earning at or below 80% AMI, where at
      least 10% of the restricted units are family sized units with more than two bedrooms; or

   3. At least 20% of units are restricted to households earning at or below 80% AMI.

C. Development Standards. In addition to the station area development standards detailed in
   VMC 20.530.040, 20-year option MFTE developments also shall meet the following
   requirements:


  1. Traffic Impact fee. A 50 percent reduction of transportation impact fees shall be
      provided for projects receiving a 20-year multiple-unit housing property tax exemption
      providing 50 years of affordability.




ORDINANCE - 23
3.22.060          MFTE program procedures

A.   Application Procedure. A property owner who wishes to propose a project for a multifamily
     tax exemption shall complete the following procedures:

     1. File with the city the required application and the required fees. The initial application
          fee to the city shall consist of a base fee of $5,000 plus $75.00 per multifamily unit. If the
          city denies the application, the city will retain that portion of the fee attributable to its
          own administrative costs and refund the balance to the applicant.

     2.   A complete application shall include:

          a.    A completed city of Vancouver multifamily limited tax exemption application form;

          b.    A description of the project including the type of project and exemption requested;

          c.    Preliminary floor and site plans of the proposed project;

          d.    Detailed list of unit size, number of bedrooms and bathrooms and projected rent
                or sales price;

          e.    A detailed project budget, financing plan and operating projection;

          f.    A detailed description of green building construction practices proposed for the
                development;

          g.    A detailed advertising plan describing outreach methods for income-based
                tenants;

          h.    For rehabilitation projects, the applicant shall also submit an affidavit that existing
                dwelling units have been unoccupied for a period of 12 months prior to filing the
                application and shall secure from the city verification of property noncompliance
                with the city’s minimum housing code;

          i.    A statement acknowledging the potential tax liability when the project ceases to be
                eligible or is canceled under this chapter;

          j.    Verification by oath or affirmation of the accuracy of the submitted information;



ORDINANCE - 24
       k.         Application fee receipt.

   3. Application Review. City staff will review applications to determine eligibility based on
      VMC 3.22.040 D and evaluate the effect of the deferred tax proceeds. The city will review
      applications under the approval criteria, procedures, and program guidelines in effect
      when the city deems an application complete.

   4. Issuance of Conditional Certificate. The director may certify as eligible an applicant who
      is determined to comply with the requirements of this chapter. A decision to approve or
      deny an application shall be made within 90 days of receipt of a complete application.

            a.     Approval.

             i.    Residential target area applications outside of station areas are subject to City
                   Council review and approval in the form of a resolution, and contract outlining
                   the terms and conditions of the project approval.

             ii. Station Area applications shall be approved administratively if the criteria of
                   3.22.050 can be met, in the form of a contract outlining the terms and conditions
                   of the project approval.

             iii. Certificate issuance. Upon approval of the conditional certificate contract, the
                   director shall issue a conditional certificate of tax exemption. The applicant shall
                   record the certificate and contract with the Clark County Auditor.

      b.          Denial. If an MFTE application is denied, the director shall state in writing the
                  reasons for denial and shall send notice to the applicant at the applicant’s last
                  known address within 10 days of the denial. An applicant may appeal a denial to
                  the city council within 30 days of receipt of notice. On appeal, the director’s
                  decision will be upheld unless the applicant can show that there is no substantial
                  evidence on the record to support the director’s decision. The city council’s
                  decision on appeal will be final.

   5. Conditional Certificate Fulfillment. The conditional certificate shall expire three years
      from the date of city council or staff approval decision unless an extension is granted as
      provided in this section 6.



ORDINANCE - 25
   6. Extension of Conditional Certificate. The conditional certificate may be extended by the
          director for a period not to exceed 24 consecutive months except as provided below.
          The applicant must submit a written request stating the grounds for the extension,
          accompanied by a $1,000 processing fee. An extension may be granted if the director
          determines that:

          a.        The anticipated failure to complete construction or rehabilitation within the
                    required time period is due to circumstances beyond the control of the applicant;

      b.            The applicant has been acting and could reasonably be expected to continue to act
                    in good faith and with due diligence; and

          c.        All the conditions of the original contract between the applicant and the city will be
                    satisfied upon completion of the project.

      d.            An additional 12-month extension may be granted where each of the following
                    criteria are met:

                    i.    The request for the extension is for a later phase of a development subject to a
                          development agreement; and

                    ii. The conditional certificate was granted prior to February 2015; and

                    iii. Ownership of the property has been transferred subsequent to the granting of
                          the conditional certificate.

     7.         Application for Final Certificate.

               a.        Upon completion of the improvements agreed upon in the contract between the
                         applicant and the city and upon issuance of a temporary or permanent
                         certificate of occupancy, the applicant may request a final certificate of tax
                         exemption. The applicant must file with the city the following:

                     i.    A statement of expenditures made with respect to each multifamily housing
                           unit and the total expenditures made with respect to the entire property;




ORDINANCE - 26
                 ii. A description of the completed work and a statement that the rehabilitation
                     improvements or new construction on the owner’s property qualify the
                     property for limited exemption;

                 iii. If applicable, a statement that the project meets the income-based housing
                     requirements as described in RCW 84.14.020; and

                 iv. A statement that the work was completed within the required three-year
                     period plus any authorized extension.

     b.        Within 30 days of receipt of all materials required for a final certificate, the director
               shall determine which specific improvements satisfy the requirements, whether the
               work was completed, and the rent and income limits of the units are consistent with
               the application and the contract approved by the city and is qualified for a limited
               tax exemption under this chapter.

   8. Issuance of Final Certificate.

          a.    Review and Approval. If, after reviewing the application for final certificate, the
                director determines that the project has been completed in accordance with the
                contract between the applicant and the city and has been completed within the
                authorized time period, the city shall, within 10 days, file a final certificate of tax
                exemption with the Clark County Assessor.

      b.        Denial. The director shall notify the applicant in writing that a final certificate will
                not be filed if the director determines that:

                i.   The improvements were not completed within the authorized time period;

                ii. The improvements were not completed in accordance with the owner’s
                     application or the contract between the applicant and the city; including if
                     applicable as income-based housing requirements; or

                iii. The owner’s property is otherwise not qualified under this chapter.

          c.    Appeal. Within 14 days of receipt of the director’s denial of a final certificate, the
                applicant may file an appeal with the city council. On appeal, the director’s decision
                will be upheld unless the applicant can show that there is no substantial evidence

ORDINANCE - 27
            on the record to support the director’s decision. The city council’s decision on
            appeal will be final.

   9. Post-Exemption Rent Restriction. At the expiration of the 12-year tax exemption period,
      a five-year rent restriction will apply to the MFTE units to reduce potential displacement
      of tenants. In each of the five years following the expiration of the multifamily tax
      exemption, annual increase in the income-based unit rents shall not exceed the unit
      rent in the previous year by five percent plus the Consumer Price Index-U factor, as
      referenced in VMC 3.08.100. During this five-year period, the applicant shall continue to
      provide the city with timely annual reporting pursuant to subsection O of this section
      and participate in the city’s compliance monitoring program pursuant to subsection P of
      this section. In the event that a household occupying an MFTE designated unit
      voluntarily vacates the unit during the five-year post-exemption period then that
      designated MFTE unit shall no longer be subject to any further rent restrictions and may
      return to market rate status.

   10. Final Certificate Exemption Renewal. For 12-year tax exemptions that are within 18
      months of exemption expiration, the exemption period may be extended for an
      additional 12 years, contingent upon approval by city council. For the property to qualify
      for a potential extension the applicant must commit to renting at least 20 percent of the
      multifamily housing units as income-based units for low-income households earning at
      or below 80 percent of the area median income. Income-based projects previously
      approved at an MFI rate above 80 percent (100 or 115 percent) must agree to make
      MFTE units affordable to tenants with a median family income level at 80 percent or
      below.

      a.    Application. Property owners must request the 12-year exemption renewal no
            later than September 1st (four months prior to initial MFTE expiration date). Staff
            will review exemption application and project for compliance before making
            recommendation to city council for consideration. A $1,000 fee is required for the
            exemption renewal request.

      b.    Extension Expiration Notice. At the end of both the tenth and eleventh years of a
            12-year extension of a tax exemption, applicants must provide tenants of rent-



ORDINANCE - 28
            restricted units with notification of intent to provide the tenant with rental
            relocation assistance as provided below.

       c.   Tenant Relocation Assistance. At the expiration of any 12-year exemption or any
            12-year exemption extension, the applicant must provide tenant relocation
            assistance in an amount equal to one month’s rent to a qualified MFTE tenant
            within the final month of the qualified tenant’s lease. To be eligible for tenant
            relocation assistance the tenant must occupy an income-restricted unit at the time
            the exemption expires and must qualify as a low-income at the time relocation
            assistance is sought. If the income-based requirements remain in place for the unit
            after the expiration of the exemption, relocation assistance in an amount equal to
            one month’s rent must be provided to a qualified tenant within the final month of
            a qualified tenant’s lease who occupies an income-restricted unit at the time those
            additional affordability requirements cease to apply to the unit.

   11. Annual Compliance Review. For the duration of the exemption the owner of the
      rehabilitated or newly constructed development shall file a notarized declaration
      annually with the director that includes the following:

      a.    A statement identifying the total number of occupied and vacant multifamily units
            receiving a property tax exemption;

      b.    A certification that the property continues to be in compliance with the contract
            with the city including any provisions related to income-based housing; and

       c.   A description of any improvements or changes to the property constructed after
            the issuance of the certificate of tax exemption;

      d.    The total monthly rent or total sale amount for each unit;

      e.    For exemptions granted under the income-based housing provisions of this
            chapter, the income of each renter household at the time of initial occupancy; and

       f.   For exemptions granted under the income-based housing provisions of this
            chapter, documentation showing that 20 the required percentage of the MFE units
            were rented as income-based housing to low- or moderate-income households.
            The property owner must maintain records supporting this declaration and those

ORDINANCE - 29
            records and the multifamily units are subject to inspection by the city. Failure to
            submit the annual declaration or maintain adequate records may result in the tax
            exemption being canceled.

    12. Annual Reporting. For the first year of reporting, final MFTE certificates issued by the
       city in a calendar year shall be reported to the Washington State Department of
       Commerce by April 1st providing the information required by Chapter 84.14 RCW. For
       the remaining years of the exemption period applicants shall submit annual monitoring
       reports to the city no later than December 1st.

    13. Annual Monitoring. A review of the rent rolls is required annually including unit
       number, unit size (bedrooms/bathrooms), household size, income, rent, and utilities.
       City staff will conduct on-site reviews of tenant files randomly. There is a $500.00
       annual monitoring fee.

    14. Cancellation of Tax Exemption. If the director determines a project owner is not
       complying with the terms of the contract, the tax exemption will be canceled. In the
       case of homeownership ownership projects with multiple owners, only the
       noncompliant owner’s exemption shall be cancelled. This cancellation may occur in
       conjunction with the annual review or at any other time when noncompliance has been
       determined. If the owner intends to convert the multifamily housing to another use or
       otherwise discontinues compliance with this chapter, the owner must notify the
       director and the Clark County assessor within 60 days of the change in use.

      a.    Effect of Cancellation. If a tax exemption is canceled due to a change in use or
            other noncompliance, the Clark County assessor may impose an additional tax on
            the property, together with the interest and penalty, and a priority lien may be
            placed on the land, pursuant to Chapter 84.14 RCW.

      b.    Notice and Appeal. Upon determining that a tax exemption is to be canceled, the
            director shall notify the property owner by certified mail. The property owner may
            appeal the determination by filing a notice of appeal with the city clerk within 30
            days, specifying the factual and legal basis for the appeal. The city council will
            conduct a hearing at which all affected parties may be heard and all competent
            evidence received. The city council will affirm, modify, or repeal the decision to


ORDINANCE - 30
           cancel the exemption based on the evidence received. An aggrieved party may
           appeal the city council’s decision to the Clark County superior court.




      Section 3.    Effective date. This ordinance shall be effective immediately upon

passage.




ORDINANCE - 31
DATE OF FINAL PASSAGE at a Regular Meeting of the Vancouver City Council:

__________________________.



       SIGNED this ________ day of _________________________, 2026.



                                              ________________________________
                                              Anne McEnerny-Ogle, Mayor
 Attest:



 _____________________________________
 Katie Shifley, City Clerk


 Approved as to form:


 _____________________________________
 Nena Cook, City Attorney




ORDINANCE - 32
                                        SUMMARY

                              ORDINANCE NO. __________

       AN ORDINANCE relating to changes to the City’s Multi- Family Housing Tax

Exemption Program (MFTE); adopting amendments mandated by Washington State

Legislature House Bills 1491 and 1494; amending Chapter 3.22 of the Vancouver

Municipal Code (VMC) to add a 20-year exemption option for transit-oriented station

areas, additional definitions, clarifying code language and; providing for severability;

and setting an immediate effective date




The full text of this ordinance will be mailed upon request. Contact public records staff
at (360) 487-8480, citypdr@cityofvancouver.us, or via Public Records Request -The City
of Vancouver, WA.




ORDINANCE - 33
