                                                                   Vancouver City Council
                                                                   Anne McEnerny-Ogle, Mayor
                                                                   Bart Hansen - Ty Stober - Erik Paulsen
                                                                   Sarah J. Fox - Diana H. Perez - Kim D.
                                                                   Harless

                                 City Council Meeting Agenda
                                       October 12, 2026
In accordance with the Open Public Meetings Act (OPMA), the Vancouver City Council meeting will be open to
in-person attendance. Options for viewing and/or participating in the meeting remotely will also be
accommodated. The City Council will be attending this meeting in person.

All City Council workshops and meetings are broadcast onCVTV cable channels 23 / HD 323 and on
www.cvtv.org.

Public testimony will be accepted regarding any matter on the agenda below. Advance registration will be
required.

Unless otherwise announced by the Presiding Officer, each speaker may testify once for up to three minutes
under each public testimony opportunity below and will be asked to provide their name and city of residence for
the record.

Testimony will be accepted in the following manner:

     • Written comments submitted in advance: Email comments to the City Council until 12:00 p.m.
       October 12, 2026. Comments will be compiled and sent to the City Council and entered into the record.
     • In-person or remote testimony during the meeting: Register in-person at City Hall. In-person
       registration is open until 6:30 p.m. on October 12, 2026. Instructions will be provided on-site.
       Register to testify online. Online registration is open until 12:00 p.m. on October 12, 2026.


Visit the city's website for more information and to register under Community Testimony or call the City
Manager's Office at (360) 487-8600.

Further instructions for accessing the virtual meeting (for remote testimony) will be provided upon registration.

Upon request, printouts of agenda materials will be provided, including large print.
Workshops: 4:00-6:00 p.m.
Vancouver City Hall - Council Chambers - 415 W 6th Street, Vancouver WA

      Healthy and Climate-Smart Homes
      (Approximately 1 hour)
      Alexandra Farina, Policy Analyst, Lexi.Farina@cityofvancouver.us

      Biennial Operating Budget
      (Approximately 1 hour, to immediately follow the previous workshop)
      Shannon Olsen, Budget Manager, Kathryn Shifley, Chief Financial Officer, Lisa Brandl, Deputy
      City Manager, shannon.olsen@cityofvancouver.us, katie.shifley@cityofvancouver.us,
      lisa.brandl@cityofvancouver.us

Council Dinner / Executive Session Re: Discuss Litigation or Potential Litigation (RCW
42.30.110 (1)(i)) (6:00 - 6:30 PM)

Regular Council Meeting

6:30 PM
Vancouver City Hall - Council Chambers - 415 W 6th Street, Vancouver WA

Pledge of Allegiance

Call to Order and Roll Call

Proclamations

     Vancouver Shakeout

     Blind American's Equality Day

Community Communication
This is the place on the agenda where the public is invited to speak to Council regarding any matter
on the Agenda not already scheduled for Public Hearing. (Separate instructions are provided for
offering testimony on Public Hearing when applicable.) This includes the option to testify about
Workshops. Members of the public addressing Council are requested to give their name and city of
residence for the audio record. Speakers are to limit their testimony to a total of three minutes for all
items combined.

Consent Agenda
The following items will be passed by a single motion to approve all listed actions and resolutions.
There will be no discussion on these items unless requested by Council. If discussion is requested,
the item will be moved from the Consent Agenda and considered separately – after the motion has
been made and passed to approve the remaining items.

1.   Multifamily Tax Exemption Program Changes from House Bills 1491 and 1494

     AN ORDINANCE of the City of Vancouver relating to changes to the City’s Multi-Family Housing
     Tax Exemption Program (MFTE) as mandated by Washington State Legislature House Bills
     1491 and 1494; amending Vancouver Municipal Code Chapter 3.22 to add a 20-year exemption
     option for transit-oriented station areas, additional definitions, clarifying code language and;
     providing for severability; and setting an immediate effective date.

     Staff Report: 197-26

     Request: On Monday, October 12, 2026, advance the ordinance, setting the date for the
              second reading and public hearing for October 19, 2026.
                Bryan Monroe, Associate Housing Project Coordinator,
                bryan.monroe@cityofvancouver.us

2.   Ordinance Relating to the Vancouver Cultural Access Sales Tax, Amending Vancouver
     Municipal Code 3.45
     AN ORDINANCE amending the Vancouver Cultural Access Program.

     Staff Report: 198-26

     Request: On Monday, October 12, 2026, advance the ordinance, setting the date for the
              second reading and public hearing on October 19, 2026
               David Perlick, Director of Parks, Recreation and Cultural Services,
               david.perlick@cityofvancouver.us

3.   Approval of the Claim Vouchers
     Request: Approve claim vouchers for October 12, 2026.

Public Hearings
The following item(s) are scheduled for public hearing. Members of the public addressing Council are
requested to give their name and city of residence for the audio record. Unless otherwise announced
by the Presiding Officer, speakers are to limit their testimony to three minutes for each public hearing.

4.   Ordinance Amending Vancouver Municipal Code Title 20 pursuant to House Bill 1491

     AN ORDINANCE relating to Comprehensive Plan and Zoning for the City of Vancouver and the
     Vancouver Municipal Code (VMC) Title 20 in matter related to statutory requirements to facilitate
     housing near transit; amending VMC 20.450.030 and 20.530.040; providing for severability; and
     establishing an effective date.

     Staff Report: 195-26

     Request: On Monday, October 12, 2026, upon second reading and a public hearing, finalize
              and approve the ordinance.
               Bryan Snodgrass, Principal Planner, bryan.snodgrass@cityofvancouver.us

Communications

     A.   From the Council

     B.   From the Mayor

     C.   From the City Manager

          City Council Vacancies

Community Forum
This is the place on the agenda where the public is invited to speak to Council regarding any matter.
Members of the public addressing Council are requested to give their name and city of residence for
the record. Speakers are to limit their testimony to a total of three minutes. Up to 90 minutes will be
allotted for the Community Forum.

Adjournment


City Hall is served by C-TRAN. Route information and schedules are available online at www.c-
tran.com. You also may reach C-TRAN at (360) 695-0123 for more information on times, fares, and
routes.

Anyone needing language interpretation services or accommodations with a disability at a Vancouver
City Council meeting may contact the City Manager's staff at (360) 487-8600 (RELAY: 711). Assistive
listening devices and live Closed Captioning are available for the deaf, hard of hearing and general
public use. Please notify a staff person if you wish to use one of the devices. Every attempt at
reasonable accommodation will be made. To request this agenda in another format, please also
contact the phone numbers listed above.
