RE: County Council E-Bike Questions

What are the current rules and/or regulations?
  • First, it is important to understand what an e-bike is. Many people have an e-
      motorcycle/dirt bike but assume it is an e-bike.
  • Washington law does not have classiﬁcations for e-motorcycles/dirt bikes.
      Essentially, if a vehicle does not meet the deﬁnition of an e-bike as outlined below,
      it could, by default, be considered a motorcycle.
          o All e-bikes must have:
                   Functional pedals;
                   Power output of no more than 750 watts; and
                   A classiﬁcation label on the frame listing:
                           E-bike class; Top assisted speed; and Top power output.
          o Class 1 and Class 2 e-bikes have a top assisted speed of 20 MPH.
          o Class 3 e-bikes have a top assisted speed of 28 MPH.
  • Class 1 and Class 2 e-bikes follow the same laws as standard bicycles.
  • Class 3 e-bikes mostly follow the same laws, with a few exceptions:
          o Riders must be at least 16 years old (no license is required).
          o They cannot ride on shared-use paths (i.e., Padden Parkway Trail).
          o They cannot ride on sidewalks when a reasonable alternative exists.
  • E-motorcycles require the same things as a motorcycle:
          o The rider must be licensed with a motorcycle endorsement.
          o E-motorcycles must be registered and display a license plate.
          o E-motorcycles must have all required lighting and equipment.
          o The rider must have insurance.
          o The rider must wear a helmet.
          o E-motorcycles may only be ridden on the street and must follow all traﬃc
              laws.

Are there any safety requirements?
   • Safety requirements for e-bikes are the same as those for bicycles:
          o Red rear reﬂector.
          o White front light at night.
          o Clark County does not have a helmet ordinance.
   • Safety requirements for e-motorcycles follow all applicable motorcycle laws:
          o   Left and right mirrors.
          o   Windshield or protective eyewear.
          o   Headlamp illuminated while in motion, regardless of the time of day.
          o   Compliant motorcycle helmet.
          o   At least one tail lamp.

What is the enforcement?
  • The Clark County Sheriﬀ's Oﬃce's enforcement eﬀorts currently lean heavily
      toward education. Much of this is centered on educating parents about the
      diﬀerence between e-bikes and e-motorcycles.
  • Most serious collisions or dangerous activity involving pedestrians come from
      juveniles riding e-motorcycles in violation of several state laws.
  • For repeat oﬀenders, e-motorcycles can be impounded following the laws and
      regulations governing the impoundment of vehicles.
  • Parents can be cited under RCW 46.20.024 if they knowingly allow their
      unlicensed child to ride an e-motorcycle on the street.
  • Some of the most egregious oﬀenders elude deputies when they attempt to make
      contact. The pursuit policy typically restricts deputies from initiating a pursuit in
      these circumstances.

Is there anything the Council can do to improve safety?
    • Get the word out:
           o The Sheriﬀ's Oﬃce recently recorded an educational video with CVTV that
              will air from the end of August through much of September.
           o The Sheriﬀ's Oﬃce will soon post a similar video on social media.
           o The Sheriﬀ's Oﬃce created an educational pamphlet on e-bikes. It is
              handed out at community events and the Clark County Fair.
           o Washington Traﬃc Safety Commission's E-bike Guide.


Does the City of Vancouver have any rules on e-bikes?
  • No. The City of Vancouver has a helmet ordinance, but nothing speciﬁcally related
      to restrictions on e-bikes or e-motorcycles.

Restrictions on sidewalks?
   • See the notes above:
           o Class 1 and Class 2 e-bikes can ride on sidewalks.
           o Class 3 e-bikes only when no reasonable alternative exists.
           o E-motorcycles cannot be ridden on sidewalks.
