             AUGUST 2026




2026

Courthouse
Briefings
                           1
    Letter from President &
    Executive Director
    As a county commissioner, Courthouse Briefings give you a focused
    opportunity to share the issues facing your county, connect directly with WSAC
    leadership, and receive updates on the work we are doing on your behalf.
    Your perspective as a county commissioner is essential to our work. The
    decisions you make locally, the challenges you see firsthand, and the
    priorities you bring forward help shape your Association’s direction and
    ensure our advocacy, programs, and services respond to the issues most
    critical to your county.
    During your Courthouse Briefing, you can expect a focused conversation on the issues and
    opportunities most relevant to your role as a county commissioner, including:

      • Association Budget and Finance Updates
      • 2026 Legislative Session Outcomes
      • 2027 Legislative Priorities
      • 2027 Federal Issues and Priorities
      • WSAC Solution Center Updates
      • WSAC Programmatic Updates and New Initiatives
      • Litigation Activities.

    We look forward to discussing the priorities that matter most in your county, the solutions WSAC
    is advancing, and the support you need from us to deliver practical value for your membership
    investment.

    We’ll also highlight initiatives Derek has led in his first year as permanent Executive Director to:

      • Stabilize the association.
      • Strengthen services.
      • Increase the support available to you as a county leader.

    We are honored to serve you and your county. Your questions, feedback, and ideas help WSAC
    strengthen its partnership with commissioners across all 39 counties and better support the
    communities you represent.

    Sincerely,




    Mark Ozias                                          Derek Young
    Clallam County Commissioner, President              Executive Director


2
Who We Are
The Washington State Association of Counties (WSAC) represents all
39 counties in Washington State. We support county commissioners,
councilmembers, executives, and their staff through advocacy,
services, and collaboration.




        What This Means For Your County
You are part of a statewide network that shares solutions, strengthens policy
           influence, and improves outcomes for your residents.




                                                                                3
    2025-26 Board of Directors
    Your Board representatives set direction, oversee programs, and ensure
    accountability for WSAC’s work on behalf of all counties across the state.




    Executive Committee 2025-26




        PRESIDENT                 FIRST VICE         SECOND VICE              IMMEDIATE PAST
         Mark Ozias               PRESIDENT           PRESIDENT                 PRESIDENT
       Clallam County           Gunner Fulmer        Katie Walters              Rob Coffman
                               Walla Walla County    Kitsap County             Lincoln County




    Board Members
                                                                     LED BY



    Zack Trudell

    Dan Sutton
                        Ferry County

                        Douglas County
                                                     29         Board Members
                                                                & Alternates
    LaDon Linde         Yakima County

    Art Swannack

    Jane Fuller
                        Whitman County

                        San Juan County
                                                      9      Board Affiliates
                                                             (Non-Voting)
    Sean Swope          Lewis County

    Janet St. Clair     Island County

    Carolina Mejia      Thurston County

    Jani Hitchen        Pierce County               SCAN QR CODE
    Ryan Mello                     For Complete Board Roster
                        Pierce County

    Jaime Smith         Pierce County

    Megan Dunn          Snohomish County
4
    Dave Somers         Snohomish County
Membership Benefits
You can use our services to help solve the real challenges your county faces.




What This Means For Your County
Protect local authority and funding through strong advocacy.

Train new and experienced leaders through practical education.

Inform decisions with timely data and research.

Coordinate legal strategy on issues that affect counties statewide.

Save money through cost-saving partnerships and programs.


WHO BENEFITS




      143          Commissioners,
                   Councilmembers, and Executives




      Thousands of County Staff

                                         SCAN QR CODE
               For A List Of Benefits And Services


                                                                                5
    State Legislative Priorities
    WSAC represents county priorities at the state level. The
    Legislative Steering Committee guides policy and advocacy.




    What This Means For Your County
    Shape statewide legislative priorities with your county’s voice.

    Secure funding and policy flexibility for local needs.

    Protect county authority and essential services through ongoing advocacy.



    ADVOCACY & ACTION




          5     2026 Legislative
                Priorities




          12      Legislative Steering Committee
                  Meetings Held in 2026




                                               SCAN QR CODE
       For 2026 Legislative Agenda And Outcomes


6
Scan QR Code
publicpromiseinsurance.org                                    PROUDLY ENDORSED BY
POWERED BY NACo
BUILT FOR COUNTIES
NACo PHARMACY BENEFIT                     STUDENT DEBT RELIEF
MANAGEMENT COALITION          SAVE ON     FOR PUBLIC SERVANTS
                             EMPLOYEE
      Average savings of                  County employees can save
                             BENEFIT
   20% Discount              SOLUTIONS
                               TODAY
                                         $156/mo or $28,308
     on Rx drug plan costs                in lifetime savings on average




                                                                             7
    Federal Legislative Priorities
    We work with national partners to advocate for federal policies that
    impact counties.




    What This Means For Your County
    Protect key funding sources, including Payment in Lieu of Taxes, Secure Rural
    Schools, and Federal Emergency Management Agency programs.

    Support behavioral health and public safety resources.

    Expand federal programs that benefit your residents.

                               2026 FEDERAL OUTCOMES




         12      Bills and Agency              Successes:
                 Actions Tracked
                                               • SRS and PILT funded
                                               • 21st Century ROAD to Housing
                                                 Act (H.R. 6644) passed
                 Meetings with
                                               • BUILD America 250 Act

         17      Congressional
                 Delegation
                                                 passed out of committee
                                               • FEMA Act passed out of
                 and Staff                       committee




                                             SCAN QR CODE
                             For 2026 Federal Priorities


8
                      A revenue-generating tool for
                          Washington Counties


A Proud Partner of:



                      $5                              9
     Litigation & Amicus
     We use legal action strategically when necessary to protect county interests.




     What This Means For Your County
     Reduce risk and cost through coordinated legal strategy.

     Address statewide legal issues with a unified county voice.

     Strengthen your county’s influence in court decisions that may affect county
     authority, funding, or operations.



                                 PUBLIC DEFENSE UPDATE




          Current Status:
          The Supreme Court declined to accept the State’s
          petition for review and we’re scheduled for trial in
          November 2027.




                                              SCAN QR CODE
                       For Detailed Cases And Updates


10
Summary Financials & Dues
We operate with diversified revenue and careful financial oversight. Dues
support core services and advocacy. Partnerships and programs are additional
sources of revenue.




What This Means For Your County
Fund advocacy, services, and programs that no single county could easily
provide alone.

Stretch county dues through additional revenue from partnerships
and programs.

Sustain WSAC’s long-term ability to support your county.




                                                                               11
     WSAC Programs
     Our programs bring counties together to address complex
     issues like water, coastal management, and timber.




     What This Means For Your County
     Engage in major statewide initiatives.

     Share expertise across regions.

     Improve outcomes through coordinated action.



                            PROGRAMS SUPPORTING COUNTIES




                    Columbia River Caucus

                   Coastal Counties Caucus

         Timber and Public Lands Program



                                              SCAN QR CODE
                                       For Program Details


12
                                                Nationwide and National Association of Counties

457(b) retirement plans


Our valued partnership
helps provide retirement
solutions for America’s workers

The National Association of Counties (NACo) and Nationwide® are
unified in our mission to help county leaders find better retirement
solutions for their employees. Together we’ve achieved a lot:


     More than                                  More than                                  More than


425,000                                 $24 billion                                   40 years
current participants                             in assets                               of partnership



                               Nearly                                    More than


                        3,000                                    1.5 million
                       participating                             employees and retirees
                    counties and county                           served over the years
                       jurisdictions



                 For more information, contact:
                  John Barth

                  Phone: 253-341-6432 Email: BARTHJ7@nationwide.com



Nationwide Retirement Solutions and Nationwide Life Insurance Company (collectively “Nationwide”) have
endorsement relationships with the National Association of Counties (NACo). More information about the
endorsement relationships can be found online at nrsforu.com.
Nationwide and the Nationwide N and Eagle are service marks of Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company.
© 2022 Nationwide NRM-21961M3-NX (12/22)




      CROWE CYBER SERVICES



      Anticipate. Protect. Respond.
      The communities you serve depend on you to stay ahead of cyberthreats. Prevent emerging risks
      from becoming real-world consequences by strengthening your cyber program with preemptive
      cybersecruity defenses that anticipate, disrupt, and neutralize cyberattacks.




                                Scan the QR code to explore our services.




      Visit www.crowe.com/disclosure for more information about Crowe LLP, its subsidiaries, and Crowe Global. © 2026 Crowe LLP. TACT3044744
                                                                                                                                               13
     WSAC Solutions Center
     The Solutions Center connects counties with vetted partners and cost-saving
     services, including pooling programs and negotiated rates.




     What This Means For Your County
     Access trusted vendors and programs.

     Reduce costs and improve services.

     Strengthen workforce, technology, and operations.



                              PARTNERSHIPS AND REVENUE




        32       Total number
                 of Partnerships                $129,000
                                                In Revenue from
                           Increase in          Partnerships (excludes

         221%              Revenue
                           from 2025
                                                revenue sharing from
                                                pre-existing contracts)




                                             SCAN QR CODE
                                    For Partner Directory


14
     Student Loan & Education Benefits That Deliver Real Impact

   Savi helps city/county employees reduce student                               WHY EMPLOYERS CHOOSE SAVI
  debt, lower monthly payments, and unlock savings
  while saving HR teams time and driving retention.
 Trusted by 10,000+ employers and membership organizations nationwide


Avg. yearly savings with Savi:          Borrowers supported nationwide           Co-Branded          Educational          1:1 Support from
                                                                                  Microsite           Webinars                 Experts
             $2,244                                 3M+



   $5B+                          $38,980                  98%
Student loan 1savings        Average lifetime        Federal student loan
                                                                    1
  found since 2017                         1
                           savings per borrower     application acceptance                             Automated             Turnkey
                                                                             Employer Dashboard
                                                              rate
                                                                             with Impact Metrics   Enrollment & Digital   Communications
                                                                                                          Forms             Resources

                                                                                                                                             15
                        Want to learn more? Contact johnnelson@bysavi.com
     Staff Directory
     Our staff provide policy, legal, program, and member support services.




     What This Means For Your County
     Connect with subject matter experts.

     Receive responsive support for local needs.



                              SERVING COUNTIES




           20        WSAC Staff
                     Members


                     Years of Experience at WSAC and
           85        Many More Serving Counties and
                     Local Governments




                                             SCAN QR CODE
                                For Entire Staff Directory


16
Affiliate Directory
WSAC partners with affiliate organizations representing county professionals.




What This Means For Your County
Access broader expertise across all county functions.

Strengthen coordination and shared learning.

Build larger policy coalitions working for local government.


                                 OUR AFFILIATES



   • Association of County Human Services
   • SWISS (Snohomish, Whatcom, Island, Skagit, San Juan)
   • Washington Association of County Commission/Council Clerks
   • Washington Association of County Solid Waste Managers
   • Washington Counties Administration Association
   • Washington State Association of County Engineers
   • Washington State Association of County and Regional Planning Directors
   • Washington State Association of Local Public Health Officials
   • Washington State University Extension Directors




                                          SCAN QR CODE
                        For Affiliate List And Details


                                                                                17
     Notes




18
Notes




        19
     WASHINGTON STATE
     ASSOCIATION OF COUNTIES
     206 Tenth Ave SE
     Olympia, WA 98501
     (360) 753-1886
     wsac.org


20
