                                                                                         COUNCIL TIME
                                                                                        MEETING MINUTES


               Council Meetings will be held in a hybrid format, and the public is encouraged to participate.
                In person attendance at the Public Service Center, 6th Floor, Conference Room 680,
                       1300 Franklin Street, Vancouver, WA 98660 or virtually using WebEx


Wednesday, September 23, 2026 • 1:00 PM

COUNCILOR ROLL CALL
  • Yung – Present
  • Belkot – Present
  • Fuentes – Absent
  • Little – Present
  • Marshall – Present

AMENDMENTS TO THE AGENDA
  • Chair Marshall requested to add as item 5.3 Cluster Development on Resource Lands.

PUBLIC COMMENT
  1. Carmen DeLeon
  2. Kimberlee Goheen-Elbon
  3. David Toyer

OLD BUSINESS
Approval of minutes for September 16, 2026
   ACTION: Moved by Councilor Little to APPROVE Minutes for September 16, 2026. Councilor Belkot seconded
           the motion. All aye/motion passed.

NEW BUSINESS
  • Transfer of Development Rights (TDR) Discussion
        o Councilor Little discussed wanting to schedule a round table discussion with all the jurisdictions and
            key stakeholders in Clark County to work on the developing a process for a TDR program.
        o Questions and discussion were had by Council.
        o Council agreed to move forward with scheduling the round table in early 2027.
  • Proclamation Request: Hispanic Heritage Month (added 9/21/26 at 8:00am)
        o Council supported moving forward with this proclamation request. Chair Marshall volunteered to read
            on October 6, 2026.
  • Cluster Development on Resource Lands
        o Chair Marshall and April Furth, Deputy County Manager, provided an explanation of Cluster
            Development and how it functions on resource lands. Oliver Orjiako, Community Planning Director,
            provided a history of the changes of Cluster Development in the county. Marshall also explained why a
            change to Cluster Development is necessary in the Comprehensive Plan.
        o Questions and discussion were had by Council.
        o Chair Marshall stated she would work with Oliver Orjiako on a potential amendment.




1|Page
                                                                                         COUNCIL TIME
                                                                                        MEETING MINUTES


               Council Meetings will be held in a hybrid format, and the public is encouraged to participate.
COUNCILOR REPORTS
  • Councilor Yung attended the Accessible Communities Advisory Committee meeting and stated they have been
     working on bylaws changes which will be coming before Council at a later date. Yung also attended the La
     Center Downtown 2.0 groundbreaking ceremony. Yung stated ECHO will be inviting community court to
     present to the group and stated Beth Robinson, Therapeutic Specialty Courts Coordinator, is retiring and
     expressed appreciation for all the work she has done. April Furth stated Beth’s last day will be October 30th.
  • Chair Marshall stated the Law and Justice Council will be inviting all diversionary courts to participate in
     January. Marshall also stated that the auditor received a glowing report from the state with high praise for
     county auditor staff and the other departments that participated.
  • Councilor Belkot stated Kathleen Otto, County Manager, and herself attended the Legislative Steering
     committee (LSC) Board Meeting last Thursday where they discussed jail projects around state.

WORK SESSION REQUESTS
  • Public Works: 2027 Parks & Nature Fee Update
        o Council supported moving forward with this work session request.
  • Public Works: Parks & Natural Areas Comprehensive Plan Update
        o Council supported moving forward with this work session request.

POLICY UPDATES
   • Kathleen Otto, County Manager, attended the WSAC Board Meeting and stated Council will be receiving an
      update from them next week. Kathleen outlined various legal updates that they provided at the meeting.
      Kathleen stated they are looking at re-organizing WSAC, and anticipates they will provide more details when
      they come down.
          o Questions and discussion were had by Council.
   • Jordan Boege, Senior Policy Analyst, shared the policy statement that Clark County Transportation Alliance
      put together representing groups in Clark County. Jordan provided information on their priority projects and
      the changes that have occurred to those projects estimated costs.
          o Council supported keeping the priority projects listed a priority.

EXECUTIVE SESSIONS
Start Time 2:27 pm with the presence of legal counsel. Pending Litigation RCW 42.30.110(1)(i) – 15 minutes – no
after action; Extension 15 minutes until 3:00 pm; Extension 15 minutes until 3:15 pm; Extension 15 minutes until
3:30 pm; Extension 5 minutes until 3:35 pm; End time was 3:35 pm.

ADJOURNED




2|Page
                                                                                              COUNCIL TIME
                                                                                             MEETING MINUTES


                 Council Meetings will be held in a hybrid format, and the public is encouraged to participate.

CLARK COUNTY COUNCIL



Sue Marshall, Chair



Glen Yung, Councilor



Michelle Belkot, Councilor



Wil Fuentes, Councilor



Matt Little, Councilor

ATTEST:

Rebecca Messinger, Clerk to the Council

jg
The audio recording for Board Time meetings can be accessed on the county website (clark.wa.gov/councilors/clark-county-council-
meetings) on The Grid.




3|Page
