                                                                                         BOARD OF HEALTH
                                                                                         MEETING MINUTES


                Council Meetings will be held in a hybrid format, and the public is encouraged to participate.
                 In person attendance at the Public Service Center, 6th Floor, Conference Room 680,
                        1300 Franklin Street, Vancouver, WA 98660 or virtually using WebEx

Wednesday, July 22, 2026 • 8:30 AM
Councilor Roll Call
    •   Yung – Absent
    •   Belkot – Present
    •   Fuentes – Present
    •   Little – Present
    •   Marshall – Present
Amendments to the Agenda
NONE
Public Comment
    1. Kimberlee Goheen-Elbon
    2. Carmen DeLeon
Consent Agenda
Approval of minutes for June 24, 2026
    ACTION: Moved by Councilor Fuentes to APPROVE Minutes for June 24, 2026. Councilor Little seconded the
            motion. All aye/motion passed.
Public Health in Action
    •   Language Access Line
           o Presented by Marissa Armstrong, Public Health Communications Manager
           o Topics covered include barriers experienced by people who speak languages other than English trying
               to reach Public Health by phone, an overview of the Public Health language access voicemail system,
               and review of the language access voicemail data from the first 18 months of the system.
Director Update
    •   Cyclospora Foodborne Illness/Outbreak
            o Dr. Alan Melnick, Clark County Health Officer, provided an update on the outbreak, how the illness is
                contracted and spread, and as of today, no evidence exists of the outbreak affecting Clark County.
            o Dr. Melnick emphasized importance of washing fruits and vegetables before consumption.
    •   Bats and Rabies
            o Dr. Alan Melnick, Clark County Health Officer, provided information on bats, noting they are the only
                species that carries rabies in Washington state.
            o Dr. Melnick encouraged assuming all bats are carrying rabies and advises people to never touch or
                handle a bat.
Public Health Advisory Council (PHAC) Report Out
    •   Emily Estes, Public Health Advisory Council Vice-Chair, stated PHAC has not met since the last Board of
        Health meeting, that the membership had a positive response to Public Health’s “Prioritizing Places” place-
        based work, and they have been discussing how to bring community priorities to the Board of Health.
Comments From the Board
NONE

ADJOURNED
1|Page
                                                                                                BOARD OF HEALTH
                                                                                                MEETING MINUTES


                  Council Meetings will be held in a hybrid format, and the public is encouraged to participate.

BOARD OF HEALTH


Sue Marshall, Chair



Glen Yung, Councilor



Michelle Belkot, Councilor



Wil Fuentes, Councilor



Matt Little, Councilor

ATTEST:

Rebecca Messinger, Clerk to the Council

jg
Please note: Board of Health minutes are prepared as action minutes. Digital recordings are available upon request. Meetings are
streamed live on CVTV 23 and cvtv.org, and replays are available on CVTV 21 and CVTV 23 (www.cvtv.org).




2|Page
